TypeError: null is not an object (evaluating 'a.appendChild')

  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:27 in k
  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:27 in n
  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:27 in toJSON
  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:28 in loadEmbed

LOGIN
REGISTER
RS GATHERING
DIARIES
 ×
 

Illegal Immigration Advocates Trying to Make Maryland a Sanctuary State SHARE ON FACEBOOK SHARE ON TWITTER

Illegal Immigration Advocates Trying To Make Maryland A Sanctuary State
Posted at 4:47 pm on February 11, 2017 by Jim Jamitis

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter

 
 
Proponents of illegal immigration in Maryland are hoping to get the state, or at least some of its counties, to follow California’s lead and become a sanctuary for illegal aliens.

Maryland’s largest immigrant advocacy group plans to push for legislation in Montgomery and Prince George’s counties that affirms protections for undocumented immigrants, a measure similar to one that spawned a bitter debate and executive veto in Howard County this week.

Gustavo Torres, executive director of CASA de Maryland, told a meeting of immigrant advocacy groups Wednesday that he wants county law to reflect longtime practices in the two liberal and ethnically diverse suburbs, which generally limit collaboration by police and corrections personnel with federal deportation authorities.

New statutes are needed, he said, as President Trump attempts to crack down on undocumented immigrants nationwide.

“We want to keep Montgomery as a welcoming county,” said Torres, announcing that he planned to speak with County Council members next week. “We want to clarify and send a very strong message that all agencies in Montgomery County are not going to collaborate with this administration.”
The use of the word “collaborate” tells us a lot about the views being put forward by Casa de Maryland. It suggests that the duly elected President represents the illegal occupation here and not those aliens who ignore the nation’s immigration laws. State and county authorities cooperate with the federal government on immigration. Turncoats and quislings collaborate. Words and their connotations matter.


 
TRENDING
2020 Race Begins Now, As Trump Begins Insults Of Potential Opponent Mark Cuban | RedState
Susan Wright
 
Casa de Maryland believes illegal aliens have more of a right to disobey the law than the federal government has to enforce it. It still astonishes me that the left wing politicians actively supporting “sanctuary” policies can do so without legal consequences.

CASA and other advocates are working with state lawmakers to pass the Trust Act, which is based on a California measure and would bar police and sheriff’s departments, for example, from complying with federal requests to hold undocumented prisoners beyond their release date.
Thankfully there are at least some sane people in positions to prevent the left from codifying chaos, for now anyway.

But the outlook for the bill, sponsored by state Sen. Victor R. Ramirez (D-Prince George’s), is uncertain. It has yet to be filed in the House of Delegates, although Del. Marice I. Morales (D-Montgomery) has said she will sponsor the proposal.

Gov. Larry Hogan (R) has signaled little interest in limiting the reach of federal immigration enforcement. Shortly after taking office in 2014, he reversed the policy of his Democratic predecessor, Martin O’Malley, and agreed to notify U.S. authorities when an undocumented immigrant targeted for deportation was released from the state-run Baltimore city jail.
Governor Hogan is probably in no hurry to sign sanctuary state legislation. The county executive for vetoed similar efforts voted on by the county council in Howard County, Maryland.

Torres said the political environment at the state level makes it all the more important that similar legislation be pursued in local jurisdictions.

“We don’t know if the governor is going to sign this,” he said.

He vowed that his group will put pressure on cities and counties with the strongest records of protecting immigrant populations from federal law enforcement.

That strategy fell short this week in Howard. County Executive Allen H. Kittleman (R) on Thursday vetoed legislation approved 3 to 2 by the County Council that would have codified policies that bar police from asking about immigration status of criminal suspects, victims or witnesses.
That such a law would even make it to the executive’s desk is disturbing, but some counties in Maryland are already de facto sanctuaries for illegal aliens anyway. These tensions are only going to increase as the Trump administration attempts to crack down on sanctuary policies. Will Trump enforce his executive order denying federal funds to counties directly adjacent to Washington, D.C.?  That could get interesting.

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter
TAGS:CASA DE MARYLANDCRIMINAL ALIENSGUSTAVO TORRESILLEGAL ALIENSIMMIGRATIONLARRY HOGANMARYLANDSANCTUARY CITIESSANCTUARY STATES
  by Taboola Sponsored Links Promoted Stories
Susan Dey Was Stunning in the 70s.. But What She Looks Like Today is Incredible
Definition
Women Are Racing To This Site
Tophatter
Teen Goes Missing In Aruba: But 10 Years Later, Police Uncover Truth
LifeDaily.com
Living with Psoriatic Arthritis: Biologic Injections vs. Infusions
HealthCentral.com
by TaboolaMore From RedState
ABC's Stephanopoulos Wants Trump Impeached

RECENT STORIES

 
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The “Idiot” In The White House
Susan Wright
 
 
Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration
Susan Wright
 
 
PUT UP OR SHUT UP: Trump Advisor Claims Voter Fraud; Has No Evidence (VIDEO)
Kimberly Ross
 
COMMENTS
POSTING RULES  |  LOGIN TO COMMENT  |  REGISTER TODAY



TRENDING
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
Justice Department Kills Obama's Pervs-In-the-Girls-Bathroom Rule
No. It is Not Okay to Call Donald Trump "Mentally Ill" as an Insult
Why is the State of Texas Collecting Millions in Labor Union Dues?
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The "Idiot" In The White House

 
Politico Rallies the Futile Resistance Declaring Trump Weak and Ineffectual
Dan Spencer
 
 
Satanic Temple Valentine’s Day Fundraiser Hopes To Raise Funds For Abortion Lawsuits
Susan Wright
 

 
RedState’s Water Cooler 2/12/17 – Open Thread – Ex Parte Merryman
colonelflagg
 
 
Swedish Government Debases Itself To Suck Up To Iranian Mullahs
streiff
 

 
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
Jay Caruso
 
 
Department of Education Proves We Need Reform in One Misspelled Tweet
Mickey White
 

RELATED STORIES
 
Sanctuary Cities Are Discovering That Money Talks and Bullcrap Walks
streiff
 
 
The Media Avoiding The Facts Of “Trump Immigration Raids”
Brad Slager
 
TRENDING ON TOWNHALL MEDIA
 
Left-Fascism: Free Speech Restrictions on Campus
finance.townhall.com
 
 
No. It is Not Okay to Call Donald Trump "Mentally Ill" as an Insult | RedState
redstate.com
 
 
Oh, the Irony: Liberals Threaten to Homeschool Kids After DeVos Confirmed as Education Secretary
townhall.com
 
 
The Tyranny of the Minority | Human Events
humanevents.com
 
          
Home RS Gathering Advertise Newsletters Privacy Policy Terms of Use
 Copyright RedState.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you
 `Illegal Immigration Advocates Trying to Make Maryland a Sanctuary State | RedState
