TypeError: null is not an object (evaluating 'select_element.setAttribute')

  http://michellemalkin.com/wp-content/themes/malkin/js/mm.js?ver=4.6.1:68
Flyover-speak 101: Dems holding crash courses in how to talk to ‘real people’
 	
By Doug Powers  •  January 26, 2017 07:37 PM
**Written by Doug Powers
This has to be one of the funniest headlines in recent memory:

What could possibly go wrong?
Gathering in Sheperdstown, West Virginia, Democrats were scheduled to hear Thursday from liberal political operative David Brock, Center for American Progress CEO Neera Tanden and Priorities USA CEO Guy Cecil in a session called “Hold Trump Accountable.” Earlier in the day, Sen. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.) moderated a “discussion with Trump voters,” according to a draft schedule obtained by POLITICO.
Manchin and nine other Senate Democrats are up for reelection next year in states that Trump won. Much of the event appears geared at figuring out how to turn people who supported Trump into Democratic voters in 2018.
Former Kentucky Gov. Steve Beshear (D), along with Sens. Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.) and Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), held a session on “speaking to those who feel invisible in rural America,” according to the schedule. Other sessions were along similar lines: “Listening to those who feel unheard” and “Rising America — They feel unheard too.”
As part of their 2018 prep the Dems are going to spend an inordinate amount of time trolling FarmersOnly.com and watching Green Acres reruns. And of course the syllabus will include a seminar covering what NOT to say:

**Written by Doug Powers
Twitter @ThePowersThatBe

blog comments powered by Disqus
Posted in: 2016 Campaign,Democrats,Donald Trump
Printer Friendly


Ninth Circuit keeps Trump’s travel ban blocked; Hillary rubs it in from undisclosed location nowhere near the White House
February 9, 2017 09:00 PM by Doug Powers

Weighing in from the sidelines
Dem Regrets? Dianne Feinstein has one (paging Harry Reid!)
February 9, 2017 04:09 PM by Doug Powers

Self-inflicted party paralysis
Liberal Event Horizon? Nancy Pelosi said something so wrong it stunned even Maxine Waters
February 7, 2017 08:49 PM by Doug Powers

Old habits die hard
Hillary Clinton to release new book & test paid speaker market’s appetite for influence peddlers with no influence
February 1, 2017 10:29 PM by Doug Powers

How to Win Friends and Fail to Influence Swing States
SCOTUS-geddon: Chris Matthews’ leg thrill vaporized by Trump’s apocalyptic ‘shock & awe’ campaign
January 31, 2017 09:21 PM by Doug Powers

The thrill is long gone

Categories: 2016 Campaign, Chris Matthews, Democrats, Donald Trump, Media Bias


 

 
AboutContactArchivesColumnsPhotosCRTV
Powered by Sound Strategies Inc.
Design by The BlogStudio
© 2004-2017 – Jazz Mustache LLC ‒ all rights reserved


`Michelle Malkin | » Flyover-speak 101: Dems holding crash courses in how to talk to ‘real people’
