
LOGIN
REGISTER
RS GATHERING
DIARIES
 ×
 

I Watched “John Wick 2” And Now I Want To Kill Absolutely Nobody SHARE ON FACEBOOK SHARE ON TWITTER

I Watched “John Wick 2” And Now I Want To Kill Absolutely Nobody
Posted at 10:30 am on February 11, 2017 by Susan Wright

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter

 
 
So last night I took some “me” time and got away to indulge in a movie.

Specifically, I got a chance to see “John Wick 2.”

Back at the beginning of the year, I wrote a piece about those things I was looking forward to in 2017. This movie was one of those things.

I’ll say this about the movie, without getting into a full review or too many spoilers.

If action is something you crave in your cinema, this will not disappoint.

It literally opened up with an insane level of action. There was very little time spent dipping into the back story from the first film. There was no slow build up. It just launched right into a crazy car chase.

You do briefly meet a couple of new characters who were loosely related to characters from the first movie, but then it was right back to it.

Keanu Reeves does about 90% of his own stunts in these movies, and that’s impressive, especially when you see the crazy fights and shooting scenes.

The scenery was very slick. The story line was actually a lot tighter than the first, I feel, which is saying a lot, considering it was juggling more characters.

At two hours and two minutes, you absolutely get your money’s worth of just fun, fantastical action.


 
TRENDING
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years | RedState
Jay Caruso
 
You’re not going to be watching this and wondering if you left the stove on.

Oh, and if you’re like me, you’ll never think of pencils the same way, again.

Ok, so I told you that to segue into this review from The Guardian.

The author of this piece took hand-wringing, moral preening to a whole, new level.

While saying he liked the first “John Wick,” and that even this sequel was well-done, he takes the, “How dare you like this stuff!” stance, and it made me want to reach up and cut his manbun off (I checked – he doesn’t actually have a manbun).

John Wick: Chapter 2, a string of elaborate bullet ballets with only trace elements of a plot, is hardcore gun pornography, pure and simple. And when the imagery faded (along with the hoots ‘n’ hollers of the audience) I felt sunk in a crater of guilt, choking on a miasma of shame.
Those evil, evil guns.

So basically, while everyone else was enjoying themselves, letting a movie do what a movie is supposed to do – entertain – he was wrapping himself up in a cloak of moral superiority.

Very nice.

A lustily shot sequence teases out one weapon after another and, to one who has never held a firearm and has no intention of doing so, each make and model just sounds like chrome noise. Until our hero was handed an enormous rifle in the AR family. Ah, that’s one I’ve heard of. I recognize it as the gun of choice in Newtown and Aurora and San Bernardino. (The Pulse dance club in Orlando fell to an MCX, the Pepsi to the AR-15’s Coke.)
Hey, gun owners, this guy has never held a gun. He’s better than you.

Oh, and every movie gun is responsible for every mass shooting in our nation.

That particular paragraph pretty much made the hair on the back of my neck stand up. It’s the same attitude that anti-Second Amendment stalwarts have been fomenting for years, ramping the rhetoric up every time one unstable individual does what millions of other gun owners manage to avoid every single day.

The idea seems to be that if you possess a firearm, then you’re just a killer who hasn’t killed, yet.

I don’t think it’s overly prudish to wonder just where the line of decency is as audience bloodlust continues to get chummed. Eventually, the moviegoer staggering out of a violent screening looking for headache tablets will be you.
Unlike what this gentle, high strung soul would have you believe, a lack of breathless alarm from those of us who enjoy these kinds of films doesn’t make us barbarians, insensitive and thirsty for movie blood.

The facts are, I’d rather watch a splatterfest with hot car chases and shootouts, like “John Wick,” than something I know is going to bore me silly, like “The Notebook.”

Am I callous?

I know I’m not. Quite the opposite, really. I may be overly sensitive, to be honest.

What I’m not is so weak and on edge that I can’t watch a really good, fun action flick – which “John Wick 2” was – without coming out of it with a twisted sense of reality and a desire to go out and shoot up the neighborhood.

What’s more, if your job is that of a movie critic, then critique the movie. Your political sermons are probably best saved for your children or your close friends, over one of those boring, Manhattan dinner parties.

As for me, I’ll join with the host of other movie goers over at Rotten Tomatoes, the movie fan ratings site, where “John Wick 2” was rated 91% “Fresh.”

It’s just a good movie, and I’ll probably go see it, again.

Fair warning for those of a more delicate constitution, like the writer of the review from The Guardian: There are guns – many, many guns.

Enjoy!

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter
TAGS:EVIL SCARY-LOOKING GUNSJOHN WICK 2KEANU REEVES
  by Taboola Sponsored Links Promoted Stories
Susan Dey Was Stunning in the 70s.. But What She Looks Like Today is Incredible
Definition
Teen Goes Missing In Aruba: But 10 Years Later, Police Uncover Truth
LifeDaily.com
The Root Of All Stomach Problems - Avoid These 3 Foods
BIO X4 Supplement
We Tried Bombas Socks. Here’s What Happened:
Business Insider | Bombas Socks
by TaboolaMore From RedState
Crazy anti-gun white dude attacks law-abiding black man; former gets arrested.

RECENT STORIES

 
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The “Idiot” In The White House
Susan Wright
 
 
Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration
Susan Wright
 
 
PUT UP OR SHUT UP: Trump Advisor Claims Voter Fraud; Has No Evidence (VIDEO)
Kimberly Ross
 
COMMENTS
POSTING RULES  |  LOGIN TO COMMENT  |  REGISTER TODAY



TRENDING
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
No. It is Not Okay to Call Donald Trump "Mentally Ill" as an Insult
Justice Department Kills Obama's Pervs-In-the-Girls-Bathroom Rule
Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration
Why is the State of Texas Collecting Millions in Labor Union Dues?

 
Politico Rallies the Futile Resistance Declaring Trump Weak and Ineffectual
Dan Spencer
 
 
Satanic Temple Valentine’s Day Fundraiser Hopes To Raise Funds For Abortion Lawsuits
Susan Wright
 

 
RedState’s Water Cooler 2/12/17 – Open Thread – Ex Parte Merryman
colonelflagg
 
 
Swedish Government Debases Itself To Suck Up To Iranian Mullahs
streiff
 

 
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
Jay Caruso
 
 
Department of Education Proves We Need Reform in One Misspelled Tweet
Mickey White
 

RELATED STORIES
 
I Watched “John Wick 2” And Now I Want To Kill Absolutely Nobody
Susan Wright
 
 
Neutering Men Is A Poor Evolutionary Strategy
Repair_Man_Jack
 
TRENDING ON TOWNHALL MEDIA
 
Left-Fascism: Free Speech Restrictions on Campus
finance.townhall.com
 
 
Left Wing Intolerance and Right Wing Hypocrisy
townhall.com
 
 
Does the 9th Circuit really have an 80% reversal rate? « Hot Air
hotair.com
 
 
Entrepreneurship Learned Young in New Hampshire | Human Events
humanevents.com
 
          
Home RS Gathering Advertise Newsletters Privacy Policy Terms of Use
 Copyright RedState.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you
 `I Watched "John Wick 2" And Now I Want To Kill Absolutely Nobody | RedState
