TypeError: null is not an object (evaluating 'select_element.setAttribute')

  http://michellemalkin.com/wp-content/themes/malkin/js/mm.js?ver=4.6.1:68
Obama’s ‘Farewell Speech’ could trigger flood warnings in Chicago when the MSM drool/tear bucket overflows
 	
By Doug Powers  •  January 10, 2017 02:40 PM
**Written by Doug Powers
Tonight, President Obama will cap off his career in elective politics where it began, at Bill Ayers house McCormick Place in Chicago.
And there shall be a great weeping in Hollywood while the Mainstream Media drool/tear bucket overfloweth:
Popular but politically humbled, President Barack Obama says goodbye to the nation Tuesday night in a dramatic reinterpretation of a presidential farewell address.
Hoping to capitalize on a well of goodwill that’s expanded in the final year of his tenure, Obama has discarded the staid Oval Office or East Room for his last formal set of remarks. Instead, he’ll travel to Chicago, the city where he declared victory in 2008 and 2012, to address a sold-out crowd of ardent supporters.
The moment, conceived months ago, is meant to recall the most iconic moments of Obama’s historic tenure, ones rooted in the “hope and change” message that carried the first African-American to the White House.
[…]
As he departs office leaving scores of progressive policies in place, there’s ample evidence of change. But for his backers, the “hope” aspect of that original mantra is diminished by the prospects of Donald Trump’s presidency.
On Tuesday, Obama aims to revive the spirits of progressives who he’d hoped to rally behind Hillary Clinton. Though his speech won’t be policy-oriented or carry any direct contrasts with Trump, his message will offer a “hopeful” vision for the future, according to administration officials.
Counselors will be available at MSNBC and Chris Matthews’ dinner fork is being corked for his own protection as we speak.
Thousands of tickets were made available — one for every national & local political seat Democrats lost during Obama’s tenure, give or take:

But this is really just the end of the beginning. Once Trump takes office Obama will probably be more outspoken than ever, and he’s also going to help develop Dem political talent, much to the delight of the GOP.
People can say what they want about the Obama years, but his ability to inspire even the most relatively apolitical publications to sound like North Korea state media is undeniable:

I’m assuming Obama’s speech will cover how he did in fact slow the rise of the oceans in these past eight years.
Update:
It’s a safe bet that the majority of the MSM shares the pain of the super-objective journos at Buzzfeed:

**Written by Doug Powers
Twitter @ThePowersThatBe

blog comments powered by Disqus
Posted in: Barack Obama,Media Bias
Printer Friendly


Necessary reminder for MSM: ‘Death to America’ chants in Iran started WAY before Trump became president
February 10, 2017 01:16 PM by Doug Powers

It’s nothing new
Now that Obama’s gone it’s safe for the MSM to notice Iran’s ‘more powerful’ than they’ve been in decades
February 6, 2017 08:16 PM by Doug Powers

Predictable
Fifty Shades of Grey Lady: NY Times Mag troubled by ‘uncomfortable love affair’ on Super Sunday (open thread)
February 5, 2017 09:45 AM by Doug Powers

Guess we know who they’re NOT rooting for
Ex-Prez who took nuns to court slams Trump on religious freedom
January 30, 2017 07:13 PM by Doug Powers

Perfect
Perfect: Richard Branson sends private jet for Obamas so they can discuss how everybody’s going to die from fossil fuel emissions
January 24, 2017 09:21 AM by Doug Powers

Mixed messages

Categories: Barack Obama, Enviro-nitwits, Feature Story


 

 
AboutContactArchivesColumnsPhotosCRTV
Powered by Sound Strategies Inc.
Design by The BlogStudio
© 2004-2017 – Jazz Mustache LLC ‒ all rights reserved


`Michelle Malkin | » Obama’s ‘Farewell Speech’ could trigger flood warnings in Chicago when the MSM drool/tear bucket overflows
