ReferenceError: Can't find variable: twttr

  http://townhall.com/resources/js/sc.js:18
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in j
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in fireWith
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in ready
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in I
×
 


Townhall Tipsheet  Leah Barkoukis
CNN
CNN Anchor: Fake News Label Is Like the N-word For Journalists
Leah Barkoukis |Posted: Feb 10, 2017 8:30 AM  Share (2K)   Tweet


CNN anchor Chris Cuomo said Thursday that the label “fake news” has become the equivalent of an ethnic slur for journalists.

“I see being called ‘fake news’ as the equivalent of the N-word for journalists,” he said on Sirius XM's "POTUS."

"[It’s] the equivalent of calling an Italian any of the ugly words that people have for that ethnicity. That’s what fake news is to a journalist," he added.

“It is an ugly insult, and you had better be right if you’re going to charge a journalist with lying on purpose," he continued. "The president was not right here and he’s not been right in the past.”

President Trump has repeatedly called out CNN for its “fake news”—perhaps most memorably when he berated a reporter for the network during a press conference, saying, “you are fake news.”

But he also singled Cuomo out in a tweet Thursday.

“Chris Cuomo, in his interview with Sen. Blumenthal, never asked him about his long-term lie about his brave ‘service’ in Vietnam,” Trump tweeted. "FAKE NEWS!”

The host of CNN’s “New Day” addressed Trump’s criticism on air, saying Trump’s assessment of his interview with the Democratic senator is not accurate.

“Really, [it’s] the first point I made in the interview,” Cuomo said on Sirius XM. "The president, with all due respect, is once again off on the facts. And that’s not something that any of us have any desire to say on a regular basis, but it keeps being true."

“Fake news is the worst thing you can call a journalist. It’s like an ethnic disparagement. We all have these ugly words for people. That’s the one for journalists," he said.

Cuomo later apologized for his comments, noting on Twitter that the “fake news” label is actually not equivalent to an ethnic slur.

“I was wrong. Calling a journalist fake -nothing compared to the pain of a racial slur. I should not have said it. I apologize,” he wrote. 

  Share this on Facebook (2K)
  Tweet

  by Taboola Sponsored Links Promoted Stories
New Executive Order: Big Changes for Retirees
Money Morning
Teen Goes Missing In Aruba: But 10 Years Later, Police Uncover Truth
LifeDaily.com
10 Pictures That Prove Betty White Has Always Been a Babe
Cyber Breeze
Man Who Predicted Trump Win Makes New Prediction
MoneyWise411
by TaboolaMore From TownHall
New York Post: FBI Agents Tell Us Lynch and Clinton Struck a Deal on That Plane
Tags:  CNN FAKE NEWS

Say What?! Donald Trump Would Have Won The Popular Vote If It Weren't For Gary Johnson
Matt Vespa|  
Oh, the Irony: Liberals Threaten to Homeschool Kids After DeVos Confirmed as Education Secretary
Leah Barkoukis|  
As The Left Wallows In 'Trump Is Hitler' Hysteria, IJ Review Asked Someone Who Lived Through Nazi Germany If There Are Similarities
Matt Vespa|  
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
Matt Vespa|  
ACLU Is Seeing A Trump-era Surge In Members and Donations

AP News|  


  

CARTOONS | JERRY HOLBERT
VIEW CARTOON 
Most Popular
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
Matt Vespa
Say What?! Donald Trump Would Have Won The Popular Vote If It Weren't For Gary Johnson
Matt Vespa
As The Left Wallows In 'Trump Is Hitler' Hysteria, IJ Review Asked Someone Who Lived Through Nazi Germany If There Are Similarities
Matt Vespa


Trending on Townhall Media
Left-Fascism: Free Speech Restrictions on Campus
TOWNHALL FINANCE
Quit Lying to Women About How to Survive Violent Attacks...Please.
BEARING ARMS
A good friend of Trump's just kneecapped Reince Priebus to the WaPost and on CNN
TWITCHY
George Soros: Top 10 Reasons He Is Dangerous | Human Events
HUMAN EVENTS
 
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
TOWNHALL

Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration | RedState
REDSTATE
Video: SNL turns Kellyanne Conway into a crazed, sex-obsessed stalker - Hot Air
HOTAIR
					
Columnists Political Cartoons Tipsheet  Election Results Radio News Video Slideshows Tags Finance Townhall Radio
About Townhall Advertise Privacy Policy Terms of Use Radio Stations Sitemap Jobs  Contact Us Newsletters Townhall Mobile iPhone/Android Apps
  
Townhall.com is the leading source for conservative news and political commentary and analysis.
Copyright © Townhall.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you


 `CNN Anchor: Fake News Label Is Like the N-word For Journalists - Leah Barkoukis
