TypeError: null is not an object (evaluating 'select_element.setAttribute')

  http://michellemalkin.com/wp-content/themes/malkin/js/mm.js?ver=4.6.1:68
Leftist rioters proved how much Trump hates Muslims and immigrants by torching limo owned by Muslim immigrant
 	
By Doug Powers  •  January 23, 2017 06:50 PM
**Written by Doug Powers

Leftist rioters are the Gilligans of Progressive Island:
The limousine that was set on fire during the anti-Trump anarchist protest in downtown Washington on Inauguration Day is owned by a Muslim immigrant who says the damage could cost his company $70,000.
Muhammad Ashraf, the owner of Nationwide Chauffeur Services, spoke with the Washington Examiner’s sister publication, Red Alert Politics, about what happened:
Ashraf’s employee, Luis Villarroel, 58, was dropping a client off at their destination when things turned ugly. Protesters smashed doors and windows in the vicinity, but then turned their attention to Villarroel and the limo. People began pounding on the car and started throwing stones and bricks in his direction. The driver ended up going to the hospital for cuts on his hands and arms from glass being shattered by thrown projectiles. […]
“[We’ve] been in business for over 25 years and this is the first time this has happened,” Ashraf said.
What ironic little anti-Trump Muslim immigrant leftist anarchists.
(h/t Twitchy)
**Written by Doug Powers
Twitter @ThePowersThatBe

blog comments powered by Disqus
Posted in: Donald Trump,Feature Story,Politics
Printer Friendly


How NOT to win taxpayer sympathy: EPA bureaucrats plan ‘slow walk’ strategy with Trump
February 11, 2017 02:31 PM by Doug Powers

“It’s like the movie music when the shark is coming.”
Necessary reminder for MSM: ‘Death to America’ chants in Iran started WAY before Trump became president
February 10, 2017 01:16 PM by Doug Powers

It’s nothing new
Ninth Circuit keeps Trump’s travel ban blocked; Hillary rubs it in from undisclosed location nowhere near the White House
February 9, 2017 09:00 PM by Doug Powers

Weighing in from the sidelines
Dem Regrets? Dianne Feinstein has one (paging Harry Reid!)
February 9, 2017 04:09 PM by Doug Powers

Self-inflicted party paralysis
Hillary Clinton stakes claim on future in name of liberal women who shouldn’t have to wonder why they’re not ahead by 50 points
February 7, 2017 11:01 AM by Doug Powers

Definition of insanity

Categories: Democrats, Donald Trump, Hillary Clinton


 

 
AboutContactArchivesColumnsPhotosCRTV
Powered by Sound Strategies Inc.
Design by The BlogStudio
© 2004-2017 – Jazz Mustache LLC ‒ all rights reserved


`Michelle Malkin | » Leftist rioters proved how much Trump hates Muslims and immigrants by torching limo owned by Muslim immigrant
