TypeError: null is not an object (evaluating 'select_element.setAttribute')

  http://michellemalkin.com/wp-content/themes/malkin/js/mm.js?ver=4.6.1:68
Perfect: Richard Branson sends private jet for Obamas so they can discuss how everybody’s going to die from fossil fuel emissions
 	
By Doug Powers  •  January 24, 2017 09:21 AM
**Written by Doug Powers

Note: The eco-hypocrisy outlined below Al Gore approved
Another “do as I say not as I do” instant classic in just a few dozen words:
Barack and Michelle Obama have left Palm Springs, less than 3 days after arriving, and it seems they’re on their way to Richard Branson’s private island in the Caribbean.
The former prez and Michelle boarded a private jet Monday morning … a jet owned by Branson. The plane is bound for the airport a stone’s throw from Necker Island, where Branson lives.
Branson is involved in a slew of socially conscious causes, including deep concerns over climate change … one of President Obama’s passions.
“Sir Richard, I’d like to talk to you about our shared concern that fossil fuel emissions are an imminent threat to life as we know it… plus it won’t stop raining here.”
“I’ll send the jet.”
“Cool.”
The other level of irony now that the Obamas are on the island is the enjoying of the fruits of capitalism during more discussions with Branson about a “crisis” that invariably end up concluding that capitalism is a big part of the problem.
**Written by Doug Powers
Twitter @ThePowersThatBe

blog comments powered by Disqus
Posted in: Barack Obama,Enviro-nitwits,Feature Story
Printer Friendly


Necessary reminder for MSM: ‘Death to America’ chants in Iran started WAY before Trump became president
February 10, 2017 01:16 PM by Doug Powers

It’s nothing new
Now that Obama’s gone it’s safe for the MSM to notice Iran’s ‘more powerful’ than they’ve been in decades
February 6, 2017 08:16 PM by Doug Powers

Predictable
Fifty Shades of Grey Lady: NY Times Mag troubled by ‘uncomfortable love affair’ on Super Sunday (open thread)
February 5, 2017 09:45 AM by Doug Powers

Guess we know who they’re NOT rooting for
Ex-Prez who took nuns to court slams Trump on religious freedom
January 30, 2017 07:13 PM by Doug Powers

Perfect
Chris Matthews’ leg thrill withdrawal symptoms have him seeing visions of Hitler after Trump’s ‘America first’ speech
January 20, 2017 09:11 PM by Doug Powers

The thrill is gone, but the lunacy lives on

Categories: Barack Obama, Chris Matthews, Donald Trump


 

 
AboutContactArchivesColumnsPhotosCRTV
Powered by Sound Strategies Inc.
Design by The BlogStudio
© 2004-2017 – Jazz Mustache LLC ‒ all rights reserved


`Michelle Malkin | » Perfect: Richard Branson sends private jet for Obamas so they can discuss how everybody’s going to die from fossil fuel emissions
