TypeError: null is not an object (evaluating 'select_element.setAttribute')

  http://michellemalkin.com/wp-content/themes/malkin/js/mm.js?ver=4.6.1:68
Clean energy proposal: Harness the power of Paul Krugman’s backfiring market predictions
 	
By Doug Powers  •  January 26, 2017 07:48 AM
**Written by Doug Powers
Just before and shortly after Donald Trump beat Hillary Clinton, New York Times super-genius economist and space alien stimulus architect Paul Krugman said that the smart Wall Street money was on Hillary Clinton:

As a matter of fact, on the night Trump was elected, Krugman predicted a market disaster from which the U.S. (and maybe the world) might never recover:
It really does now look like President Donald J. Trump, and markets are plunging. When might we expect them to recover?
Frankly, I find it hard to care much, even though this is my specialty. The disaster for America and the world has so many aspects that the economic ramifications are way down my list of things to fear.
Still, I guess people want an answer: If the question is when markets will recover, a first-pass answer is never.
Fast forward to yesterday:


If only the power of Krugman’s backfired predictions could somehow be harnessed. This sounds like a job for future Energy Secretary Rick Perry!
**Written by Doug Powers
Twitter @ThePowersThatBe

blog comments powered by Disqus
Posted in: 2016 Campaign,Donald Trump,Media Bias,Paul Krugman
Printer Friendly


Ninth Circuit keeps Trump’s travel ban blocked; Hillary rubs it in from undisclosed location nowhere near the White House
February 9, 2017 09:00 PM by Doug Powers

Weighing in from the sidelines
Dem Regrets? Dianne Feinstein has one (paging Harry Reid!)
February 9, 2017 04:09 PM by Doug Powers

Self-inflicted party paralysis
Liberal Event Horizon? Nancy Pelosi said something so wrong it stunned even Maxine Waters
February 7, 2017 08:49 PM by Doug Powers

Old habits die hard
Hillary Clinton to release new book & test paid speaker market’s appetite for influence peddlers with no influence
February 1, 2017 10:29 PM by Doug Powers

How to Win Friends and Fail to Influence Swing States
SCOTUS-geddon: Chris Matthews’ leg thrill vaporized by Trump’s apocalyptic ‘shock & awe’ campaign
January 31, 2017 09:21 PM by Doug Powers

The thrill is long gone

Categories: 2016 Campaign, Chris Matthews, Democrats, Donald Trump, Media Bias


 

 
AboutContactArchivesColumnsPhotosCRTV
Powered by Sound Strategies Inc.
Design by The BlogStudio
© 2004-2017 – Jazz Mustache LLC ‒ all rights reserved


`Michelle Malkin | » Clean energy proposal: Harness the power of Paul Krugman’s backfiring market predictions
