TypeError: null is not an object (evaluating 'a.appendChild')

  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:27 in k
  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:27 in n
  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:27 in toJSON
  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:28 in loadEmbed

LOGIN
REGISTER
RS GATHERING
DIARIES
 ×
 

Swedish Government Debases Itself To Suck Up To Iranian Mullahs SHARE ON FACEBOOK SHARE ON TWITTER

Swedish Government Debases Itself To Suck Up To Iranian Mullahs
Posted at 12:34 pm on February 12, 2017 by streiff

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter

 
 
This is not surprising but neither should it go without comment.

Sweden has elected what bills itself as the “first feminist government in the world.” Allegedly, this is what it means:

Sweden has the first feminist government in the world. This means that gender equality is central to the Government’s priorities – in decision-making and resource allocation. A feminist government ensures that a gender equality perspective is brought into policy-making on a broad front, both nationally and internationally. Women and men must have the same power to shape society and their own lives. This is a human right and a matter of democracy and justice. Gender equality is also part of the solution to society’s challenges and a matter of course in a modern welfare state – for justice and economic development. The Government’s most important tool for implementing feminist policy is gender mainstreaming, of which gender-responsive budgeting is an important component.
This is what the government looks like:



One of the things that got this government attention recently was when the deputy prime minister used Twitter to poke fun at Donald Trump. Because, you know, anything you say about Trump just has to prove how funny and smart you are.

Compare and contrast: Trump restricts women's rights; Sweden's Isabella Lovin pushes world's most ambitious (?) climate law pic.twitter.com/1po54sDYsb

— Megan Darby (@climatemegan) February 3, 2017

 
TRENDING
Sanctuary Cities Are Discovering That Money Talks and Bullcrap Walks | RedState
streiff
 
Keep in mind that this douchebaggery was hailed in a Forbes magazine column called “Most Powerful Women” under the headline Swedish Deputy Prime Minister Appears to Mock President Trump With All-Female Photo.

But, as always, cheap grace ends up being just that. Cheap grace. The shallowness of their committment to women’s rights has been evident for some time. They have been either unable or unwilling to enforce Swedish law in swaths of the nation where Muslim immigrants do their own thing and treat women pretty much like they lived in cold a Somalia that has better furniture and worse food.

The real proof of just how cowardly and debased this “feminist government” is was documented in a recent visit by a Swedish diplomatic mission headed by Ann Linde to Iran.

Photo of Swedish official in Iran, hair covered, signing docs to cooperate on among other things "women’s affairs" https://t.co/cTpVZqETkM pic.twitter.com/f3uUPERLIG

— Omri Ceren (@omriceren) February 11, 2017
Here are some photos, courtesy of UN Watch





If you go back to the group picture of the Swedish government, Ann Linde is at the far right of the photo. This is how she looked in Iran:



Because nothing says feminism and equality like hiding under a black bag.

It just goes to show a central fact about the left in general and about Euro-trash leftists in particular. They are brave and bold when poking fun at people who they know won’t hurt them. The are craven douches at the first hint of danger.

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter
TAGS:ANN LINDEDOUCHEBAGGERYIRANSWEDEN
  by Taboola Sponsored Links Promoted Stories
15 Deleted Movie Scenes That Were Vital To The Plot
Detonate
We Tried Bombas Socks. Here’s What Happened:
Business Insider | Bombas Socks
Teen Goes Missing In Aruba: But 10 Years Later, Police Uncover Truth
LifeDaily.com
Women Are Racing To This Site
Tophatter
by TaboolaMore From RedState
A Difficult Goodbye

RECENT STORIES

 
No. It is Not Okay to Call Donald Trump “Mentally Ill” as an Insult
Mickey White
 
 
Why is the State of Texas Collecting Millions in Labor Union Dues?
mattmackowiak
 
 
Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration
Susan Wright
 
COMMENTS
POSTING RULES  |  LOGIN TO COMMENT  |  REGISTER TODAY



TRENDING
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
No. It is Not Okay to Call Donald Trump "Mentally Ill" as an Insult
Justice Department Kills Obama's Pervs-In-the-Girls-Bathroom Rule
Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration
Why is the State of Texas Collecting Millions in Labor Union Dues?

 
PUT UP OR SHUT UP: Trump Advisor Claims Voter Fraud; Has No Evidence (VIDEO)
Kimberly Ross
 
 
CBS News Introduces “Nation Tracker” to Study Public Reaction to Trump
Mickey White
 

 
Satanic Temple Valentine’s Day Fundraiser Hopes To Raise Funds For Abortion Lawsuits
Susan Wright
 
 
RedState’s Water Cooler 2/12/17 – Open Thread – Ex Parte Merryman
colonelflagg
 

 
Swedish Government Debases Itself To Suck Up To Iranian Mullahs
streiff
 
 
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
Jay Caruso
 

RELATED STORIES
 
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The “Idiot” In The White House
Susan Wright
 
 
Swedish Government Debases Itself To Suck Up To Iranian Mullahs
streiff
 
TRENDING ON TOWNHALL MEDIA
 
Left-Fascism: Free Speech Restrictions on Campus
finance.townhall.com
 
 
Netflix Announces New Series 'Dear White People' and Shows Their True Colors
townhall.com
 
 
Come quickly, SMOD: 2020 New York Senate race may pit Chelsea Clinton against Caroline Kennedy « Hot
hotair.com
 
 
Black America's real problem isn't white racism
humanevents.com
 
          
Home RS Gathering Advertise Newsletters Privacy Policy Terms of Use
 Copyright RedState.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you
BESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswy`Swedish Government Debases Itself To Suck Up To Iranian Mullahs | RedState
