ReferenceError: Can't find variable: twttr

  http://townhall.com/resources/js/sc.js:18
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in j
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in fireWith
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in ready
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in I
×
 


Townhall Columnists  Derek Hunter
BABY
Baby Daddy
Derek Hunter |Posted: Feb 12, 2017 12:01 AM  Share (33)   Tweet


  

Trending
 
Bruce Bialosky
The Death of Comedy?
 
Michael Brown
Left Wing Intolerance and Right Wing Hypocrisy
 
Susan Stamper Brown
Has This Good Girl Gone Bad?

It’s been a weird couple of years for me, a time of adjustment, if you will. Nothing overwhelming, just nothing that comes naturally.

In September 2015, I got married. It’s a scary event for a lot of people, but for me, it was simply fun but a lot of work and a relief when it was done.

But come the end of May, I will cross another bridge. I will become a father for the first. And to say I’m a little freaked out by the prospect is an understatement. What I tell my listeners and friends is, “You spend your whole life trying to avoid something, then you go and do it on purpose…”

Yeah, I’m nervous. No bit of advice, no reading, no nothing is going to prepare me for the gathering storm of crying and diapers, or crying over diapers.

We know it’s a girl. That’s another area about which I know nothing. The journey into parenthood is a mystery my wife and I look forward to facing together, but at least she is prepared on that front. Well, as prepared as anyone can be to impart knowledge you don’t even know how you acquired.

Still, I couldn’t be more thankful to have her. She’s handling this much better than I am. She’s nervous, yes. But she’s a voracious reader and, unlike me, it helps her.

We have our parents, thankfully. We’re two rarities in the 21st century whose parents not only are still married but still in love. Hers have raised two girls; mine have three to their credit.

Unfortunately we are both the youngest in our families, so we didn’t witness raising girls, even though she experienced it firsthand. We’re in need of getting to the other side of a frozen river in a hurry and spring has sprung; the ice is thin. Thank God she’s several steps ahead of me.


CARTOONS | JERRY HOLBERT
VIEW CARTOON 
We’ll get to the other side, but the creaking of the ice leads to some tossing and turning at night.

I asked my parents if they had any advice for raising a girl. I think they’re enjoying my panic, to be honest. After the obligatory “You’ll do fine,” my father offered more of a statement than advice. He said, “Girls are easy, until they’re 13. Then they think they know everything and will act like they hate you a lot.”

Well, that didn’t sound very promising – a decade and a third of joy to come crashing down when the teen years hit. But my father wasn’t done. “Around 18 they realize they don’t know everything, and they become fun again.” He then laughed. There must be something about being a parent that gives joy in seeing your child worry over things in which you have complete faith in them. I don’t know it, but I look forward to ribbing my own children one day.

But before that day, I imagine there will be many others of panic, joy, laughter, confusion, contentment, as well as lots of diapers, tears and smiles. I don’t know about the order. I don’t know about the frequency. I assume many will come in bunches, sometimes all at once. As terrifying as it is, I’m very much looking forward to it.

The end of May still seems so far away, but with the shadow cast by every setting sun, I know it grows closer.


My wife is showing in the middle, like she ate a volleyball. Otherwise you’d never know there’s a storm gathering inside her. We’re moving to the stage of discussing names.

Ok, not discussing, really. It’s more like we are both supposed to come up with a list of five and sit down to discard the filler and sell the other on the one we really want. It’s bizarre to think you have the power to decide what another human being will be called for her entire life. How do you do that right?

If given the choice, I don’t know that I would have gone with Derek. Nothing against it; it’s much better than the runner-up – Scott. Nothing against Scotts out there; I’ve just never felt like one. But I’ve spent a lifetime correcting people who misspelled Derek.

Actually, I probably would choose Derek, if only for the stories. My best friend’s mother, before she passed away, never spelled it right when she’d write on a scratchpad that I’d called. She also never spelled it wrong the same way twice in a row. I like being able to tell that story.

But what to call my daughter? I don’t want it to be common, but I don’t want it to be something Gwyneth Paltrow would name her kid either. There’s still time, I guess.


That’s not really true, I have my list already. Four fillers and the favorite. The trick now is to convince my wife that my favorite is her favorite, that it was almost her idea, while not tipping my hand. I assume she’s plotting the same.

As the summit nears, so does the baby’s arrival.

Such a weird, weird feeling. You spend your whole life trying to avoid something…

I can’t wait.

I hope she takes after her mother and avoids guys like me. At least until they’re old enough, smart enough, to be ready. Or I hope she becomes a nun. Either one.

  Share this on Facebook (33)
  Tweet

  by Taboola Sponsored Links Promoted Stories
The Best Western Films of All Time
PrettyFamous — By Graphiq
The best Strategy Game of 2017!
Vikings: Free Online Game
29 Dogs That Will Fight For Your Life
PetBreeds — By Graphiq
New Executive Order: Big Changes for Retirees
Money Morning
by TaboolaMore From TownHall
Mike Adams - How to Kill Everyone on Welfare (In the Name of Liberalism)
Tags:  BABY BABY NAMES LIFE

Say What?! Donald Trump Would Have Won The Popular Vote If It Weren't For Gary Johnson
Matt Vespa|  
Oh, the Irony: Liberals Threaten to Homeschool Kids After DeVos Confirmed as Education Secretary
Leah Barkoukis|  
As The Left Wallows In 'Trump Is Hitler' Hysteria, IJ Review Asked Someone Who Lived Through Nazi Germany If There Are Similarities
Matt Vespa|  
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
Matt Vespa|  
ACLU Is Seeing A Trump-era Surge In Members and Donations

AP News|  



Trending on Townhall Media
Left-Fascism: Free Speech Restrictions on Campus
TOWNHALL FINANCE
NBC News Spreads Fear, Lies With "Ghost Gun" Fake News
BEARING ARMS
Former Sen. Jim Webb (D) gets torched for pointing out the REAL problem with his party
TWITCHY
George Soros: Top 10 Reasons He Is Dangerous | Human Events
HUMAN EVENTS
 
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
TOWNHALL

Video: SNL turns Kellyanne Conway into a crazed, sex-obsessed stalker - Hot Air
HOTAIR
Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration | RedState
REDSTATE
					
Columnists Political Cartoons Tipsheet  Election Results Radio News Video Slideshows Tags Finance Townhall Radio
About Townhall Advertise Privacy Policy Terms of Use Radio Stations Sitemap Jobs  Contact Us Newsletters Townhall Mobile iPhone/Android Apps
  
Townhall.com is the leading source for conservative news and political commentary and analysis.
Copyright © Townhall.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you


 `Baby Daddy - Derek Hunter
