ReferenceError: Can't find variable: twttr

  http://townhall.com/resources/js/sc.js:18
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in j
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in fireWith
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in ready
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in I
×
 


Townhall Watchdog  M.D. Kittle
Taxpayers on the hook for Madison Women’s March
M.D. Kittle|Feb 09, 2017 11:19 PM  Share    Tweet

MADISON, Wis. — By all official accounts, last month’s Women’s March on Madison was a peaceful demonstration by a left-wing that has declared rhetorical war against Republican President Donald Trump and all they think he stands for.

But the march that drew an estimated 100,000 people to downtown Madison didn’t come free, and taxpayers of all political persuasions will be forced to pick up the tab.

Call it the price of protest.

While it’s hard to see the damage though a thin blanket of snow cover, the massive march on Jan. 21, the day after Trump’s inauguration, did a number on the Capitol grounds.

Portions of the lawn will have to be re-seeded at a quoted price of $2,280, according to the Wisconsin Department of Administration.

A DOA spokesman tells Wisconsin Watchdog that Capitol Police incurred $467.78 in overtime wages working the event, and the Wisconsin State Patrol paid out $318.28 in overtime costs.

City of Madison taxpayers may be left with a much bigger bill, although just how much remains to be seen.

Madison Police Department spokesman Joel DeSpain said it could be a month or more before the agency’s finance unit manager has all of the numbers tabulated. Officers who work such events — and liberal Madison has had plenty of them over the years — may take paid time off in lieu of their crowd-control services.

DeSpain said there were “a lot” of officers working on regular hours, but there would be additional costs for the department’s special events team.

“The biggest thing our officers did was block a couple of streets as the march moved up from the university (UW-Madison campus) to the Capitol,” he said.

As of Thursday afternoon, Wisconsin Watchdog had not received information from the city of Madison regarding ancillary costs, such as assistance from other emergency services and sanitation crews.

In the hours after the event, trash — from spent protest signs to fast food bags and wrappers — littered the streets and spilled out of downtown garbage receptacles.

DeSpain and Capitol police officials did not report any arrests or citations during the demonstration.

Mainstream publications gleefully reported on the Madison march and others across the country, including what the New York Times described as a “kind of counterinauguration.”

“Rivaling the massive protests against Gov. Scott Walker’s Act 10 anti-union legislation in 2011, a crowd police estimated at between 75,000 and 100,000 people marched on the state Capitol on Saturday to voice concerns over rights and causes they fear will be endangered by Donald Trump’s presidency,” the Wisconsin State Journal reported.

“As they marched up State Street to the Capitol for the Women’s March on Madison, women, men and children held signs in support of women’s reproductive rights, public education and the scientific consensus of global climate change, among other causes.”

Wisconsin taxpayers have seen this movie before.

Nearly six years ago, tens of thousands of left-wing protesters descended on the state Capitol to demonstrate against Walker’s public sector collective bargaining reform initiative known as Act 10. For weeks, protesters camped out at the Capitol, doing an estimated $347,500 in damage.

The cost was significantly lower than the $7.5 million the Department of Administration first reported, but the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel’s Politifact team shrugged off the hundreds of thousands of dollars in damages as if the protesters had merely broken a lamp and a couple of beer mugs at an extended house party.

State Sen. Tom Tiffany, R-Hazelhurst, who was just weeks into his first term in the Legislature when the Act 10 demonstrations exploded, said the rest of the nation should be fully prepared to go through what Wisconsin endured in 2011 and 2012.

“What happened in Wisconsin six years ago is being writ large across the country,” Tiffany said.

State Sen. Dave Craig, R-Town of Vernon, said the recent damage done to the Capitol lawn underscores the need for fencing or other “demarcation alerting protesters to stay on the pavement in the interest of taxpayers.”

Demonstrators have often invoked the “people’s house” idea, that the Capitol and the institutions of government therein belong to the people of Wisconsin. True, Craig said, but the people’s house doesn’t exclusively belong to protesters. It belongs to everyone, including taxpayers who have grown tired of paying for seemingly perpetual demonstrations of duly elected representatives and policies and laws they don’t like.

“The state Capitol is a building of symbolic importance, and with that should come an elevated respect of all citizens of Wisconsin, that when they come to it they are coming to the seat of our part of the great American republic,” Craig said of the building which this year celebrates its centennial. “There is something to be said for the fact that the Capitol has endured for 100 years, but that has not come without a cost. It is the result of a lot of work from people, all of which has been funded by our taxpayers.”

  Share this on Facebook
  Tweet


Say What?! Donald Trump Would Have Won The Popular Vote If It Weren't For Gary Johnson
Matt Vespa|  
Oh, the Irony: Liberals Threaten to Homeschool Kids After DeVos Confirmed as Education Secretary
Leah Barkoukis|  
As The Left Wallows In 'Trump Is Hitler' Hysteria, IJ Review Asked Someone Who Lived Through Nazi Germany If There Are Similarities
Matt Vespa|  
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
Matt Vespa|  
ACLU Is Seeing A Trump-era Surge In Members and Donations

AP News|  

Watchdog in Your State
Colorado
Iowa
Florida
North West
Illinois
Kansas
Minnesota
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
New Jersey
Ohio
Oklahoma
Tennessee
Texas
Virginia
Wisconsin

CARTOONS | JERRY HOLBERT
VIEW CARTOON 
Most Popular
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
Matt Vespa
Say What?! Donald Trump Would Have Won The Popular Vote If It Weren't For Gary Johnson
Matt Vespa
As The Left Wallows In 'Trump Is Hitler' Hysteria, IJ Review Asked Someone Who Lived Through Nazi Germany If There Are Similarities
Matt Vespa


Trending on Townhall Media
Left-Fascism: Free Speech Restrictions on Campus
TOWNHALL FINANCE
Quit Lying to Women About How to Survive Violent Attacks...Please.
BEARING ARMS
A good friend of Trump's just kneecapped Reince Priebus to the WaPost and on CNN
TWITCHY
George Soros: Top 10 Reasons He Is Dangerous | Human Events
HUMAN EVENTS
 
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
TOWNHALL

Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration | RedState
REDSTATE
Video: SNL turns Kellyanne Conway into a crazed, sex-obsessed stalker - Hot Air
HOTAIR
					
Columnists Political Cartoons Tipsheet  Election Results Radio News Video Slideshows Tags Finance Townhall Radio
About Townhall Advertise Privacy Policy Terms of Use Radio Stations Sitemap Jobs  Contact Us Newsletters Townhall Mobile iPhone/Android Apps
  
Townhall.com is the leading source for conservative news and political commentary and analysis.
Copyright © Townhall.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you

`Taxpayers on the hook for Madison Women’s March - M.D. Kittle
