ReferenceError: Can't find variable: twttr

  http://townhall.com/resources/js/sc.js:18
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in j
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in fireWith
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in ready
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in I
×
 


Townhall Tipsheet  Leah Barkoukis
CONGRESS
Trump Credited For Surge in Congress' Approval Rating
Leah Barkoukis |Posted: Feb 10, 2017 1:00 PM  Share (348)   Tweet


Americans’ approval of Congress has skyrocketed under President Trump, who hit the ground running with an ambitious agenda as soon as he took office.

According to a new Gallup survey, approval numbers for Congress are now at the highest level they’ve been since Barack Obama’s first year in office—up 12 points in the last month to 28 percent.



Among Republicans, the approval rating is even higher at 50 percent, which is a 30-point increase from last month.

Not surprisingly, Democrats have a less favorable view of the Republican-controlled Congress, down 8 points from January to 11 percent.



As Gallup notes, this is the largest month-to-month increase since the rise between January 2009 and February 2009, when Obama first took office.

“Although each new Congress essentially begins work on Jan. 3 when newly elected members of both houses are sworn in, Americans' approval of Congress this year and in 2009 did not change significantly until after the inauguration of the new president,” Gallup notes.

Thus, Congress has Trump to thank for the higher approval rating.

"The installment of a Republican in the White House is likely giving Republicans newfound confidence that the GOP-led Congress will be effective in the ways they want it to be,” states Gallup’s analysis. “Or, the jump in approval of the Republican-controlled Congress could be a spillover effect of Republicans' positive feelings about Trump in general.”

  Share this on Facebook (348)
  Tweet

  by Taboola Sponsored Links Promoted Stories
Teen Goes Missing In Aruba: But 10 Years Later, Police Uncover Truth
LifeDaily.com
New Executive Order: Big Changes for Retirees
Money Morning
10 Pictures That Prove Betty White Has Always Been a Babe
Cyber Breeze
Man Who Predicted Trump Win Makes New Prediction
MoneyWise411
by TaboolaMore From TownHall
Frank Luntz: Clinton Will Be President
Tags:  CONGRESS GALLUP POLLING APPROVAL

Say What?! Donald Trump Would Have Won The Popular Vote If It Weren't For Gary Johnson
Matt Vespa|  
Oh, the Irony: Liberals Threaten to Homeschool Kids After DeVos Confirmed as Education Secretary
Leah Barkoukis|  
As The Left Wallows In 'Trump Is Hitler' Hysteria, IJ Review Asked Someone Who Lived Through Nazi Germany If There Are Similarities
Matt Vespa|  
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
Matt Vespa|  
ACLU Is Seeing A Trump-era Surge In Members and Donations

AP News|  


  

CARTOONS | JERRY HOLBERT
VIEW CARTOON 
Most Popular
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
Matt Vespa
Say What?! Donald Trump Would Have Won The Popular Vote If It Weren't For Gary Johnson
Matt Vespa
As The Left Wallows In 'Trump Is Hitler' Hysteria, IJ Review Asked Someone Who Lived Through Nazi Germany If There Are Similarities
Matt Vespa


Trending on Townhall Media
Left-Fascism: Free Speech Restrictions on Campus
TOWNHALL FINANCE
Quit Lying to Women About How to Survive Violent Attacks...Please.
BEARING ARMS
A good friend of Trump's just kneecapped Reince Priebus to the WaPost and on CNN
TWITCHY
George Soros: Top 10 Reasons He Is Dangerous | Human Events
HUMAN EVENTS
 
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
TOWNHALL

Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration | RedState
REDSTATE
Video: SNL turns Kellyanne Conway into a crazed, sex-obsessed stalker - Hot Air
HOTAIR
					
Columnists Political Cartoons Tipsheet  Election Results Radio News Video Slideshows Tags Finance Townhall Radio
About Townhall Advertise Privacy Policy Terms of Use Radio Stations Sitemap Jobs  Contact Us Newsletters Townhall Mobile iPhone/Android Apps
  
Townhall.com is the leading source for conservative news and political commentary and analysis.
Copyright © Townhall.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you


 `Trump Credited For Surge in Congress' Approval Rating - Leah Barkoukis
