
LOGIN
REGISTER
RS GATHERING
DIARIES
 ×
 

Muslim Groups Are Refusing Federal Funds Aimed at Combatting Violent Extremism SHARE ON FACEBOOK SHARE ON TWITTER

Muslim Groups Are Refusing Federal Funds Aimed At Combatting Violent Extremism
Posted at 7:00 pm on February 11, 2017 by Jim Jamitis

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter

 
 
Some Islamic groups have apparently decided that opposing the Trump administration’s efforts to combat terrorism is more important than working to prevent the growth of violent extremism in their communities. Federal grants are being offered to Islamic schools and organizations for programs that would counteract the forces that may radicalize certain individuals. These are no small sums of cash they’re being offered but some groups are refusing the money citing President Trump’s rhetoric as the reason.

A California Islamic school wanted to keep an open mind before Donald Trump took office. But less than a month into Trump’s presidency, the school rejected $800,000 in federal funds aimed at combating violent extremism.

The decision made late Friday night by the Bayan Claremont graduate school’s board to turn down the money — an amount that would cover more than half its yearly budget — capped weeks of sleepless nights and debate. Many there felt Trump’s rhetoric singling out Islamic extremism and his travel ban affecting predominantly Muslim countries had gone too far.

It also made the school the fourth organization nationwide under the Trump administration to reject the money for a program created under President Barack Obama known as countering violent extremism, or CVE, which officials say aims to thwart extremist groups’ abilities to recruit would-be terrorists.
The program offering these grants is the same one started by Barack Obama under the generic, politically correct name “Countering Violent Extremism.” It is one of the triggers for candidate Trump’s criticism that the Obama administration lacked the clarity to identify radical Islamic extremism as the predominant terrorism threat in the world.


 
TRENDING
Calm Down: Immigration Raids Under Trump Are The Continuation of Obama Policy | RedState
Jay Caruso
 
Rather than focus on radical Islam the program tried to portray extremist violence as a universal problem affecting many groups to the same degree as it is affecting the Muslim world. This led to a lot of sketchy analysis by which the left tried to label any violent act by non Muslims as some form of institutionalized ideological extremism. Pushing back against this sort of false moral equivalence is part of what helped Trump gain popularity.

Bayan Claremont had received the second-largest grant, among the first 31 federal grants for CVE awarded to organizations, schools and municipalities in the dwindling days of the Obama administration. The school had hoped to use the money to help create a new generation of Muslim community leaders, with $250,000 earmarked for more than a dozen local nonprofits doing social justice work.

But the fledgling school’s founding president, Jihad Turk, said officials ultimately felt accepting the money would do more harm than good.
A filmmaking group in Virginia rejected a grant of almost $400,000 and groups in Michigan and Minnesota have turned down grants of half a million dollars. About twenty percent of the grants offered as part of this $10 million program have been refused.

But amid what Turk called Trump’s “fixation on the American Muslim community,” it became clear that the president’s actions were more than campaign-trail rhetoric, he said.

“It was becoming more and more apparent,” Turk said of Trump, “that he’s actually looking to carry out all the scary stuff he said.”
If combatting the sort of people who saw off heads and burn people alive for not submitting to Islam seems less “scary” than a temporary pause in immigration then chances are this money would have been wasted by these groups anyway. They’re not serious about addressing the real problem. Perhaps this ill conceived Obama program should be discontinued entirely.

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter
TAGS:BARACK OBAMACVEEXTREMISMPRESIDENT TRUMPTERRORISMVIOLENCE
  by Taboola Sponsored Links Promoted Stories
15 Deleted Movie Scenes That Were Vital To The Plot
Detonate
Susan Dey Was Stunning in the 70s.. But What She Looks Like Today is Incredible
Definition
This Is What 2 Cups Of Diet Soda Per Day Will Do To Your Belly
BIO X4 Supplement
The Root Of All Stomach Problems - Avoid These 3 Foods (Video)
BIOX4 Supplement
by TaboolaMore From RedState
The Left May Be Less Sympathetic to Muslim Refugees After Hearing This News

RECENT STORIES

 
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The “Idiot” In The White House
Susan Wright
 
 
Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration
Susan Wright
 
 
PUT UP OR SHUT UP: Trump Advisor Claims Voter Fraud; Has No Evidence (VIDEO)
Kimberly Ross
 
COMMENTS
POSTING RULES  |  LOGIN TO COMMENT  |  REGISTER TODAY



TRENDING
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
Justice Department Kills Obama's Pervs-In-the-Girls-Bathroom Rule
No. It is Not Okay to Call Donald Trump "Mentally Ill" as an Insult
Why is the State of Texas Collecting Millions in Labor Union Dues?
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The "Idiot" In The White House

 
Politico Rallies the Futile Resistance Declaring Trump Weak and Ineffectual
Dan Spencer
 
 
Satanic Temple Valentine’s Day Fundraiser Hopes To Raise Funds For Abortion Lawsuits
Susan Wright
 

 
RedState’s Water Cooler 2/12/17 – Open Thread – Ex Parte Merryman
colonelflagg
 
 
Swedish Government Debases Itself To Suck Up To Iranian Mullahs
streiff
 

 
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
Jay Caruso
 
 
Department of Education Proves We Need Reform in One Misspelled Tweet
Mickey White
 

RELATED STORIES
 
Law Could Force Trump’s Tax Returns to Be Made Public
Patterico
 
 
Muslim Groups Are Refusing Federal Funds Aimed at Combatting Violent Extremism
Jim Jamitis
 
TRENDING ON TOWNHALL MEDIA
 
Taking Social Security Benefits Now vs. Later
finance.townhall.com
 
 
Swedish Government Debases Itself To Suck Up To Iranian Mullahs | RedState
redstate.com
 
 
Liberal Tolerance: Sen. Tim Scott Reads His Hate Mail On Senate Floor For Supporting Sessions As AG
townhall.com
 
 
A Maniac Is Running Our Foreign Policy! (It's Not Trump) | Human Events
humanevents.com
 
          
Home RS Gathering Advertise Newsletters Privacy Policy Terms of Use
 Copyright RedState.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you
 `Muslim Groups Are Refusing Federal Funds Aimed at Combatting Violent Extremism | RedState
