
LOGIN
REGISTER
RS GATHERING
DIARIES
 ×
 

Satanic Temple Valentine’s Day Fundraiser Hopes To Raise Funds For Abortion Lawsuits SHARE ON FACEBOOK SHARE ON TWITTER

Satanic Temple Valentine’s Day Fundraiser Hopes To Raise Funds For Abortion Lawsuits
Posted at 1:00 pm on February 12, 2017 by Susan Wright

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter

 
 
As sick as this is, at least it seems appropriately matched.

A liberal, anti-Christian, anti-life group called A Satanic Temple, while ludicrously claiming to stand for “compassion and empathy,” are having a Valentine’s Day fund raiser to help raise funds for several pro-abortion lawsuits that were filed against the state of Missouri.

Specifically, these poor, twisted, lost souls are offering hugs and kisses, in exchange for donations.

“You might want to present a person you approach with a Satanic Valentine’s card as means to courteously explain the event,” the Satanist group told the International Business Times about its efforts to recruit participants.

Pledges are granted based on the number of hugs and kisses received by participants on Valentine’s Day, the Libertarian Republic reported. In the example cited in the article, a participant receiving 20 hugs or kisses at a rate of $1 per hug or kiss pledged by the sponsor would generate $20 in donations for the pro-abortion lawsuits. Prizes will be distributed to those receiving the most hugs, kisses and pro-abortion donation money, the group said.
The group is based out of Salem, Massachusetts, and are led by Lucien Greaves. The Missouri laws that have attracted their attention include one that requires a 72-hour waiting period before receiving an abortion, to give women a chance to see an ultrasound of the baby they plan to abort, and to hear its heartbeat. The second law is one that ensures women receive literature stating that life begins at conception.

I can see why these particular laws have the pro-infanticide crowd ready to peel their own skin off.

You have to truly wonder what it is that makes them so opposed to giving women time to consider every detail, as well as receiving a full range of information.

Is it that they’re afraid that if the mother actually hears a heartbeat, or sees the start of life inside her through an ultrasound, that she might change her mind?


 
TRENDING
Justice Department Kills Obama's Pervs-In-the-Girls-Bathroom Rule | RedState
streiff
 
Truly, what harm can come from waiting a few days and considering the full weight of the situation?

“They violate our belief in the inviolability of one’s body,” said the Satanic Temple.

“As an adherent to the principles of the Satanic Temple…my sincerely held religious beliefs are…I, and I alone, decide whether my inviolable body remains pregnant,” the group told the Washington Post.

The lawsuit is based on a woman known as “Mary Doe,” a Satanist whose attorneys believed these provisions in the state law were “designed to dissuade her from the procedure,” Al Jazeera America reported. Both state and federal lawsuits on religious grounds are pending.
Ok, so great. That’s still no answer. Even if the belief is in the inviolability of one’s body, wouldn’t that also include the woman making the choice, based on all the information available to her, to allow her pregnancy to continue?

Mary Doe describes the Satanic Temple as “an association of politically aware Satanists, secularists, and advocates for individual liberty” that “makes decisions regarding her health based on the best scientific understanding of the world, even if the science does not comport with the religious or political beliefs of others.” Furthermore, “she alone decides whether to remove human tissue from her body,” the Washington Times reports.
If it were truly the “best scientific understanding” that these ghouls cared about, then all the more reason to wait for the ultrasound and to hear the baby’s heartbeat.

This is where we ask these individuals why they hate science.

“Human life begins at fertilization, the process during which a male gamete or sperm (spermatozoa development) unites with a female gamete or oocyte (ovum) to form a single cell called a zygote. This highly specialized, totipotent cell marked the beginning of each of us as a unique individual.” “A zygote is the beginning of a new human being (i.e., an embryo).” Keith L. Moore, The Developing Human: Clinically Oriented Embryology, 7th edition. Philadelphia, PA: Saunders, 2003. pp. 16, 2.

“It is the penetration of the ovum by a sperm and the resulting mingling of nuclear material each brings to the union that constitutes the initiation of the life of a new individual.” Clark Edward and Corliss Patten’s Human Embryology, McGraw – Hill Inc., 30
What we know is that there is a process by which we all come to be.

What we have also seen is that whether a child growing in the womb is considered a baby or a clump of cells depends on if that baby is wanted, or not.

That is absolutely against science. It is irresponsible, and is criminal-level absurdity.

Yet, this is the very thing pro-abortion advocates hang their hat on, all while arrogantly proclaiming pro-life advocates to be the misguided ones.

This pairing of the satanic and the abortion industry is illustrative of the core of those who support abortion as a “right.”

Satanism is selfish humanism, and rejects anything that reflects true giving or compassion for “the least of these.”

Abortion is likewise about the irresponsible and the selfish. When over 95% of abortions are not because of medical necessity or rape, but rather because the mother decides she doesn’t want to be inconvenienced, they have truly blended in with the darkest, most destructive elements of society.

These are not small issues, and the consequences are eternal.

These are the things that should send a nation to its knees in repentenace.

 

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter
TAGS:ABORTIONMISSOURISATANIC TEMPLE
  by Taboola Sponsored Links Promoted Stories
15 Deleted Movie Scenes That Were Vital To The Plot
Detonate
Susan Dey Was Stunning in the 70s.. But What She Looks Like Today is Incredible
Definition
We Tried Bombas Socks. Here’s What Happened:
Business Insider | Bombas Socks
Best CPAP Masks of 2016 - Love Them or Your Money Back
Easy Breathe
by TaboolaMore From RedState
Oklahoma Police Officer Daniel Holtzclaw Faces Approximately One Billion Years in Prison for Rape

RECENT STORIES

 
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The “Idiot” In The White House
Susan Wright
 
 
Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration
Susan Wright
 
 
PUT UP OR SHUT UP: Trump Advisor Claims Voter Fraud; Has No Evidence (VIDEO)
Kimberly Ross
 
COMMENTS
POSTING RULES  |  LOGIN TO COMMENT  |  REGISTER TODAY



TRENDING
Why is the State of Texas Collecting Millions in Labor Union Dues?
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
Justice Department Kills Obama's Pervs-In-the-Girls-Bathroom Rule
No. It is Not Okay to Call Donald Trump "Mentally Ill" as an Insult
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The "Idiot" In The White House

 
Politico Rallies the Futile Resistance Declaring Trump Weak and Ineffectual
Dan Spencer
 
 
Satanic Temple Valentine’s Day Fundraiser Hopes To Raise Funds For Abortion Lawsuits
Susan Wright
 

 
RedState’s Water Cooler 2/12/17 – Open Thread – Ex Parte Merryman
colonelflagg
 
 
Swedish Government Debases Itself To Suck Up To Iranian Mullahs
streiff
 

 
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
Jay Caruso
 
 
Department of Education Proves We Need Reform in One Misspelled Tweet
Mickey White
 

RELATED STORIES
 
Satanic Temple Valentine’s Day Fundraiser Hopes To Raise Funds For Abortion Lawsuits
Susan Wright
 
 
WE PERSIST: Defund Planned Parenthood Protests To Be Held In 218 Cities Today
Kimberly Ross
 
TRENDING ON TOWNHALL MEDIA
 
Why Democrats Love Failing Schools: Because Unions Pay Them To
finance.townhall.com
 
 
Here's How "President Hillary" Will Destroy Your Gun Rights Without Repealing The 2nd Amendment
bearingarms.com
 
 
Mexico's Immigration Law: Let's Try It Here at Home | Human Events
humanevents.com
 
 
The dirty little secrets of illegal immigration | RedState
redstate.com
 
          
Home RS Gathering Advertise Newsletters Privacy Policy Terms of Use
 Copyright RedState.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you
 `Satanic Temple Valentine's Day Fundraiser Hopes To Raise Funds For Abortion Lawsuits | RedState
