TypeError: null is not an object (evaluating 'select_element.setAttribute')

  http://michellemalkin.com/wp-content/themes/malkin/js/mm.js?ver=4.6.1:68
Ultrasound: The anti-science Left’s bugaboo
 	
By Michelle Malkin  •  January 24, 2017 10:51 PM
Ultrasound: The anti-science Left’s bugaboo
by Michelle Malkin
Creators Syndicate
Copyright 2017
Abortion extremists are the new Luddites.
Remember Ned Ludd from your grade-school history lessons? He was the Occupy Wall Street agitator of his time — a phantom leader of early 19th-century British textile workers who vindictively smashed spinning jenny power looms to bits in a desperate bid to halt technological progress.
Now, it’s radical feminists hysterically stoking fear and loathing of machines. Revolutionary developments in sonography have endangered their agenda of unrestricted abortion on demand, at all times, no questions asked. The popular diagnostic tools that give parents and doctors around the world an increasingly vivid window to the womb fundamentally undermine Planned Parenthood’s dehumanizing propaganda.
With more and more pregnant women over the past three decades changing their minds about abortion after seeing and hearing the life growing inside of them, the peeved pussyhat brigade is on a mission:
Ultrasounds. Must. Be. Stopped.
The latest salvo in the wimmin’s war on sinister sonograms? It’s a doozy of a screed this week published by Moira Weigel, “writer and a doctoral candidate in comparative literature at Yale University,” in the Atlantic Monthly magazine originally titled, “How the Ultrasound Pushed the Idea that a Fetus is a Person.”
What a patriarchal jerk, that insidious Mr. Ultrasound is, pushing around such sexist lunacy as the idea that unborn babies are alive!
The original subheading of the article is even better (er, worse): “The technology has been used to create an imaginary ‘heartbeat’ and sped-up videos that falsely depict a response to stimulus.”
Weigel sneered that “there is no heart to speak of” in a six-week-old fetus and used “heartbeat” in scare quotes to assert her scientific authority. She similarly employed those scare quotes to deride “life,” “baby” and “baby bump.”
After actual medical experts and parents exposed Weigel’s Neanderthal ignorance of basic embryology, the ridiculous claim was removed and a sheepish noncorrection correction appeared at the end of the biology denier’s piece for the once-august Atlantic Monthly.
“This article originally stated that there is ‘no heart to speak of’ in a six-week-old fetus,” the editors’ note admitted. “By that point in a pregnancy, a heart has already begun to form. We regret the error.” (Read it in smarty-pants “Saturday Night Live” character Emily Litella’s “Neeever mind” voice for full effect.)
Next in the anti-science Atlantic’s investigative series: How X-rays pushed the idea that humans have skeletons! How microscopes pushed the idea that microorganisms exist! How electroencephalograms pushed the idea that human brains send electrical impulses! A deep dive by the intrepid Weigel into the world of “imaginary” bones, bacteria and beta waves will no doubt yield a Pulitzer nomination if not a Nobel Prize.
Curiously, Weigel raised no objection to the appalling use of ultrasound by Planned Parenthood operatives to harvest unborn baby parts. In 2015, the Center for Medical Progress exposed how Dr. Deborah Nucatola, the abortion giant’s senior director, boasted of using “ultrasound guidance” to improve the quality of coveted organs (“a lot of people want liver”). Ultrasound machines helped their harvesters “know where they’re putting their forceps” to score better prices.
“We’ve been very good at getting heart, lung, liver,” Dr. Nucatola chirped, “because we know that, so I’m not gonna crush that part, I’m gonna basically crush below, I’m gonna crush above, and I’m gonna see if I can get it all intact.”
Ironically enough, we don’t need ultrasound to see quite clearly, through the ghoulish words and barbaric deeds of abortion zealots like Quack Doctor Wanna-be Weigel and Dr. Nucatola, that having a heart doesn’t always guarantee humanity.
Update: (DP)
Mentioned in Michelle’s column is one of The Atlantic’s non-correction corrections to their error-plagued article, but since then a LOT more have been added to the pile. The Atlantic now notes that the article has been “updated significantly.” Here’s the laundry list as it stands:
* This article originally stated that there is “no heart to speak of” in a 6-week-old fetus. In fact, the heart has already begun to form by that point in a pregnancy.
The article also originally stated that an expectant mother participating in a study decided to carry her pregnancy to term even after learning that the fetus was suffering from a genetic disorder, when in fact the fetus was only at high risk for a genetic disorder.
The article originally stated, as well, that Bernard Nathanson headed the National Right-to-Life Committee and became a born-again Christian. Nathanson was active in, but did not head the committee, and was never a born-again Christian, but rather a Roman Catholic.
The article originally stated that many doctors in 1985 claimed fetuses had no reflexive responses to medical instruments at 12 weeks.
Finally, the article originally stated that John Kasich vetoed a bill from Indiana’s legislature, instead of Ohio’s legislature, after which the article was incorrectly amended to state that Mike Pence had vetoed the bill. We regret the errors.
We now return you to your regularly scheduled “The Right is anti-science and anti-facts” media lecture.

blog comments powered by Disqus
Posted in: Abortion,Feature Story,Feminist Nonsense
Printer Friendly


Laugh of the day: Cecile Richards calls Planned Parenthood ‘non-partisan’
February 2, 2017 04:21 PM by Doug Powers

Riiiight
SNL’s ‘goodbye Obama’ cult skit was hilarious (wait, they were serious?); Ashley Judd warns of ‘Hitler in these streets’ at Women’s March (Open thread)
January 22, 2017 08:46 AM by Doug Powers

Riiiiight
‘Women’s March’ organizers remind millions of women they’re not welcome (because of all the inclusiveness & stuff)
January 17, 2017 06:09 AM by Doug Powers

It’s complicated
Progressive ‘optics’: Va. Gov. Terry McAuliffe says state’s image will suffer if it’s not legal to kill babies after 20 weeks
January 5, 2017 03:20 PM by Doug Powers

Twisted
Priorities! Former Beastie Boy finds way to raise money for Planned Parenthood that doesn’t harm any cows or sheep
November 30, 2016 07:21 PM by Doug Powers

“Cruelty-free” sneaker manufacturing to benefit abortion provider

Categories: Abortion, Hollyweird, Politics


 

 
AboutContactArchivesColumnsPhotosCRTV
Powered by Sound Strategies Inc.
Design by The BlogStudio
© 2004-2017 – Jazz Mustache LLC ‒ all rights reserved


`Michelle Malkin | » Ultrasound: The anti-science Left’s bugaboo
