TypeError: null is not an object (evaluating 'select_element.setAttribute')

  http://michellemalkin.com/wp-content/themes/malkin/js/mm.js?ver=4.6.1:68
Chris Matthews’ leg thrill withdrawal symptoms have him seeing visions of Hitler after Trump’s ‘America first’ speech
 	
By Doug Powers  •  January 20, 2017 09:11 PM
**Written by Doug Powers
Now that his “tingle” is gone for good, delirium tremens sparked by rapid withdrawal of Hope & Change elixir caused MSNBC’s Chris Matthews to have visions of Hitler during Trump’s inaugural address and to wonder what other world leaders must think:
CHRIS MATTHEWS: And that would be — but I’m thinking, when [President Trump] said today, America first, it was not just the racial, I mean I shouldn’t say racial, the Hitlerian background to it, but it was the message I kept thinking. What does [U.K. Prime Minister] Theresa May think of this when she picks up the papers? What did he just say? He said America first. What happened to special relationship?

Matthews earned his doctorate degree in Godwin’s Law long ago.
“What must Teresa May be thinking?” Well, considering Trump put the Churchill bust back in the Oval Office and May is now working to implement Brexit (which Obama lectured the UK about avoiding), I’ll let MSNBC’s elder statesman dingbat figure that one out on his own over time — not that he ever will.
**Written by Doug Powers
Twitter @ThePowersThatBe

blog comments powered by Disqus
Posted in: Barack Obama,Chris Matthews,Donald Trump
Printer Friendly


Necessary reminder for MSM: ‘Death to America’ chants in Iran started WAY before Trump became president
February 10, 2017 01:16 PM by Doug Powers

It’s nothing new
Now that Obama’s gone it’s safe for the MSM to notice Iran’s ‘more powerful’ than they’ve been in decades
February 6, 2017 08:16 PM by Doug Powers

Predictable
Fifty Shades of Grey Lady: NY Times Mag troubled by ‘uncomfortable love affair’ on Super Sunday (open thread)
February 5, 2017 09:45 AM by Doug Powers

Guess we know who they’re NOT rooting for
Ex-Prez who took nuns to court slams Trump on religious freedom
January 30, 2017 07:13 PM by Doug Powers

Perfect
Perfect: Richard Branson sends private jet for Obamas so they can discuss how everybody’s going to die from fossil fuel emissions
January 24, 2017 09:21 AM by Doug Powers

Mixed messages

Categories: Barack Obama, Enviro-nitwits, Feature Story


 

 
AboutContactArchivesColumnsPhotosCRTV
Powered by Sound Strategies Inc.
Design by The BlogStudio
© 2004-2017 – Jazz Mustache LLC ‒ all rights reserved


`Michelle Malkin | » Chris Matthews’ leg thrill withdrawal symptoms have him seeing visions of Hitler after Trump’s ‘America first’ speech
