
LOGIN
REGISTER
RS GATHERING
DIARIES
 ×
 

4 Ways Democrats Unhinged Antics Are Playing Right Into Donald Trump’s Hands SHARE ON FACEBOOK SHARE ON TWITTER

4 Ways Democrats Unhinged Antics Are Playing Right Into Donald Trump’s Hands
Posted at 4:00 am on February 11, 2017 by Jay Caruso

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter

 
 
Donald Trump first 20 days in office have been a whirlwind of activity, drama, and flashes of incompetence. I think President Trump has been somewhat overwhelmed by the job as he, like most new Presidents, are not cognizant of the amount of constant work involved. Trump’s problems would be far worse except for the fact Democrats have bailed him out some occasions thanks to their incompetence, but most of all because of their goofy, unhinged antics that have managed to solidify support among the faithful. They’ve also managed to created an environment where open Trump critics like yours truly are forced to defend him because the behavior of Democrats is so off the wall.

The two party system in this country is healthy for the republic. But Democrats and their allies have gone so off the reservation since election night 2016; they’re not behaving like a minority party. They are acting like an opposition party who think they’re in the majority. To them, Donald Trump is a White House interloper who pulled the desk chair in the Oval Office out from underneath Hillary Clinton, and the Republicans control Congress thanks to angry white males and gerrymandering.

Here are ways they’ve specifically made themselves out to look unhinged, thereby giving cover to the Trump administration, despite missteps:

1. Protests on the night of the election – When it became apparent Donald Trump was going to win the electoral college, “spontaneous” protests broke out in major cities. I put quotes around the word because many of the protests were coordinated and funded. Pre-printed signs were everywhere and chants of “Not my President!” broke out. The protests might have been tempered if Hillary Clinton conceded that evening, but she didn’t, and we were witness to thousands of people in the richest of irony saying they refused to accept the results of the election.


 
TRENDING
Muslim Groups Are Refusing Federal Funds Aimed at Combatting Violent Extremism | RedState
Jim Jamitis
 
2. “The Russians! The Russians! The Russians!” – The next step for Democrats was to put Donald Trump’s legitimacy at stake. While intelligence did suggest the Kremlin was mucking around in the election, hoping for a Trump win, there’s zero evidence to support the Democrats charge the Russians “hacked the election,” That didn’t stop Democrats from floating the theory. When Congressman John Lewis openly said he didn’t think Trump was a legitimate President because of Russian interference, Democrats didn’t condemn his words. Instead, they condemned Donald Trump’s response to Lewis’s charge.

3. Executive order freak-out. – When Donald Trump signed the executive order temporarily banning travel from 7 countries associated with terrorism and putting a moratorium on refugees, Democrats reacted as though the President unilaterally declared war on the world and started firing off nukes. Protests broke out at airports; Democrats were pearl clutching in front of anybody who pointed a camera their way and the Senate Majority Leader, Chuck Schumer held a press conference where he started crying about it. For real.

4. Behavior over Cabinet nominees – Republicans along with Democrats confirmed seven of Barack Obama’s cabinet members the day of his inauguration. Democrats have decided to play hardball with Trump’s nominees and with the confirmation of Tom Price early on the morning of February 10 as HHS Secretary; it brings Trump’s total to nine approvals – 20 days after being sworn in. Democrats, acting at the behest of their teacher’s union overlords, went after Betsy DeVos with a vengeance, smearing her in the worst way, forcing Vice-President to cast a tie-breaking vote on her nomination to which Senate Majority Leader Schumer said the process was “rigged.” DeVos tried to visit a public school in Washington DC on Thursday. Protesters attempted to block her from getting into the school and screaming at her. After Senator Elizabeth Warren was warned about rules of decorum on the Senate floor where she repeatedly railed Jeff Sessions was a racist, Senate Majority Leader McConnell invoked Rule 19, and Warren’s diatribe was shut down. What might have turned out to be a net positive for Democrats was flushed down the drain the moment Democrats decided to protest against McConnell in front of his house in Kentucky.

If Democrats want to continue to go down this route, Republicans and Donald Trump are not going to care. Such unhinged behavior by Democrats will only be of benefit to Republicans at the ballot box and their bank accounts.

It’s up to the Democrats if they want to be the opposition party or the crazy opposition party.

 

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter
TAGS:CHARLES SCHUMERDONALD TRUMPELIZABETH WARREN
  by Taboola Sponsored Links Promoted Stories
15 Deleted Movie Scenes That Were Vital To The Plot
Detonate
Susan Dey Was Stunning in the 70s.. But What She Looks Like Today is Incredible
Definition
Really Freaking Comfortable Socks
Bombas Socks
The one shimmer oil you need to look glowy all summer long
Bustle | Kopari Beauty
by TaboolaMore From RedState
A Difficult Goodbye

RECENT STORIES

 
No. It is Not Okay to Call Donald Trump “Mentally Ill” as an Insult
Mickey White
 
 
Why is the State of Texas Collecting Millions in Labor Union Dues?
mattmackowiak
 
 
Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration
Susan Wright
 
COMMENTS
POSTING RULES  |  LOGIN TO COMMENT  |  REGISTER TODAY



TRENDING
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
No. It is Not Okay to Call Donald Trump "Mentally Ill" as an Insult
Justice Department Kills Obama's Pervs-In-the-Girls-Bathroom Rule
Why is the State of Texas Collecting Millions in Labor Union Dues?
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The "Idiot" In The White House

 
PUT UP OR SHUT UP: Trump Advisor Claims Voter Fraud; Has No Evidence (VIDEO)
Kimberly Ross
 
 
CBS News Introduces “Nation Tracker” to Study Public Reaction to Trump
Mickey White
 

 
Satanic Temple Valentine’s Day Fundraiser Hopes To Raise Funds For Abortion Lawsuits
Susan Wright
 
 
RedState’s Water Cooler 2/12/17 – Open Thread – Ex Parte Merryman
colonelflagg
 

 
Swedish Government Debases Itself To Suck Up To Iranian Mullahs
streiff
 
 
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
Jay Caruso
 

RELATED STORIES
 
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The “Idiot” In The White House
Susan Wright
 
 
Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration
Susan Wright
 
TRENDING ON TOWNHALL MEDIA
 
Left-Fascism: Free Speech Restrictions on Campus
finance.townhall.com
 
 
Unsustainable and Unconstitutional General Welfare Spending | Human Events
humanevents.com
 
 
Green card holder sentenced for imaginary voter fraud in Texas - Hot Air
hotair.com
 
 
Quit Lying to Women About How to Survive Violent Attacks...Please.
bearingarms.com
 
          
Home RS Gathering Advertise Newsletters Privacy Policy Terms of Use
 Copyright RedState.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you
`4 Ways Democrats Unhinged Antics Are Playing Right Into Donald Trump's Hands | RedState
