TypeError: null is not an object (evaluating 'select_element.setAttribute')

  http://michellemalkin.com/wp-content/themes/malkin/js/mm.js?ver=4.6.1:68
Ruth Bader Ginsburg laments partisan division & also would like to get rid of that darn Electoral College
 	
By Doug Powers  •  February 7, 2017 03:15 PM
**Written by Doug Powers
A potential gold mine in ticket sales to disaffected & depressed Manhattan & L.A. liberals still weeping into tattered Stronger Together t-shirts awaits any inspired playwright who crafts a script for the alternate-reality play, “Hamilton The Musical II: Electoral College? Never Happened!”
Ruth Bader Ginsburg might be among those in the audience:
Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg says she would support changing the Electoral College.
“There are some things I would like to change, one is the Electoral College,” she said late Monday at Stanford Law School in California, according to CNN.
“But that would require a constitutional amendment, and amending our Constitution is powerfully hard to do,” she added.
Ginsburg also lamented partisan divisions in Congress, which she said hurt the confirmation process for justices.
A constitutional amendment is difficult to do, especially if you’re on the wrong end of this self-inflicted ass kicking:

But at least the ex-prez doesn’t seem too bothered by it:

Chris Matthews is going to need some alone time after seeing that one.
**Written by Doug Powers
Twitter @ThePowersThatBe

blog comments powered by Disqus
Posted in: Politics
Printer Friendly


Ninth Circuit keeps Trump’s travel ban blocked; Hillary rubs it in from undisclosed location nowhere near the White House
February 9, 2017 09:00 PM by Doug Powers

Weighing in from the sidelines
Dem Regrets? Dianne Feinstein has one (paging Harry Reid!)
February 9, 2017 04:09 PM by Doug Powers

Self-inflicted party paralysis
Liberal Event Horizon? Nancy Pelosi said something so wrong it stunned even Maxine Waters
February 7, 2017 08:49 PM by Doug Powers

Old habits die hard
Hillary Clinton stakes claim on future in name of liberal women who shouldn’t have to wonder why they’re not ahead by 50 points
February 7, 2017 11:01 AM by Doug Powers

Definition of insanity
Fifty Shades of Grey Lady: NY Times Mag troubled by ‘uncomfortable love affair’ on Super Sunday (open thread)
February 5, 2017 09:45 AM by Doug Powers

Guess we know who they’re NOT rooting for

Categories: Barack Obama, Media, Media Bias, Politics


 

 
AboutContactArchivesColumnsPhotosCRTV
Powered by Sound Strategies Inc.
Design by The BlogStudio
© 2004-2017 – Jazz Mustache LLC ‒ all rights reserved


`Michelle Malkin | » Ruth Bader Ginsburg laments partisan division & also would like to get rid of that darn Electoral College
