TypeError: null is not an object (evaluating 'a.appendChild')

  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:27 in k
  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:27 in n
  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:27 in toJSON
  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:28 in loadEmbed

LOGIN
REGISTER
RS GATHERING
DIARIES
 ×
 

Poor Sales Forced Nordstrom To Drop Ivanka Trump Fashion Line SHARE ON FACEBOOK SHARE ON TWITTER

Poor Sales Forced Nordstrom To Drop Ivanka Trump Fashion Line
Posted at 4:05 pm on February 11, 2017 by Susan Wright

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter

 
 
Donald Trump wants everyone to know what a good businessman he is.

In fact, that’s one of the arguments most used by his devotees during the run up to the election. His business experience would make him a good president (we’ll put aside that business and politics have only the most minimal resemblance to each other).

Closer to reality is that he is a known businessman, but the series of bankruptcies and failed business ventures makes the claim of “good” rather dubious.

All that taken into consideration, even a semi-successful businessman should be able to tell you that if a product isn’t selling, you stop trying to push it.

That’s exactly what happened with Nordstrom and Ivanka Trump’s fashion line.

On Wednesday of this week, after Nordstrom announced they were dropping Ivanka’s line, her dad, President Trump, tweeted out his dissatisfaction.



 
TRENDING
FATAL FLAW. SNL Envisions Kellyanne Conway as Sex Crazed Bunny Boiler Obsessed with Jake Tapper | Re
Mickey White
 
And I can allow that he was just being a protective father, but he’s no longer just a private citizen. He is president of the United States, and his words carry a certain amount of weight.

Nordstrom is a business, and they have to do what is right for their company and their shareholders.

According to internal store data, continuing to feature Ivanka Trump’s fashion line was not in the best interest of the company.

The brand’s sales dropped 32 percent overall for the year, the report said.

The first daughter’s merchandise sales at Nordstrom fell more than 70 percent during the second, third and fourth weeks of October, during the heat of the brutal presidential race, compared to the same time last year.

Nordstrom’s refusal to carry Trump’s brand sparked a flurry of criticism this week, with President Trump and other top White House figures coming to Ivanka’s defense.
Kellyanne Conway got herself in hot water this week, as well, for breaching a federal ethics law and saying on “Fox and Friends” that people should go out and buy Ivanka’s line of clothing.

A good businessman would recognize that it’s not personal, and respect the company’s business model.

Trump didn’t, and reactionary Trump fans began to call for a boycott of Nordstrom.

Here’s my thought: Why weren’t you at Nordstrom buying enough of Ivanka’s clothing line to keep it in demand?

You can’t afford to shop at Nordstrom, you say?

Then go ahead and boycott. You apparently weren’t a customer, anyway, so continuing to not get the business they weren’t getting before probably isn’t going to hurt them.

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter
TAGS:IVANKA TRUMPNORDSTROM
  by Taboola Sponsored Links Promoted Stories
See The Glasses Site Everyone In Seattle Is Shopping
GlassesUSA.com
We Tried Bombas Socks. Here’s What Happened:
Business Insider | Bombas Socks
The one shimmer oil you need to look glowy all season long
Bustle | Kopari Beauty
Susan Dey Was Stunning in the 70s.. But What She Looks Like Today is Incredible
Definition
by TaboolaMore From RedState
The End Comes Soon for Trump

RECENT STORIES

 
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The “Idiot” In The White House
Susan Wright
 
 
Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration
Susan Wright
 
 
PUT UP OR SHUT UP: Trump Advisor Claims Voter Fraud; Has No Evidence (VIDEO)
Kimberly Ross
 
COMMENTS
POSTING RULES  |  LOGIN TO COMMENT  |  REGISTER TODAY



TRENDING
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
Justice Department Kills Obama's Pervs-In-the-Girls-Bathroom Rule
No. It is Not Okay to Call Donald Trump "Mentally Ill" as an Insult
Why is the State of Texas Collecting Millions in Labor Union Dues?
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The "Idiot" In The White House

 
Politico Rallies the Futile Resistance Declaring Trump Weak and Ineffectual
Dan Spencer
 
 
Satanic Temple Valentine’s Day Fundraiser Hopes To Raise Funds For Abortion Lawsuits
Susan Wright
 

 
RedState’s Water Cooler 2/12/17 – Open Thread – Ex Parte Merryman
colonelflagg
 
 
Swedish Government Debases Itself To Suck Up To Iranian Mullahs
streiff
 

 
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
Jay Caruso
 
 
Department of Education Proves We Need Reform in One Misspelled Tweet
Mickey White
 

RELATED STORIES
 
Poor Sales Forced Nordstrom To Drop Ivanka Trump Fashion Line
Susan Wright
 
 
Kellyanne Conway Touts Ivanka Trump’s Clothing Line from White House, Apparently Violating Ethics Rules
Patterico
 
TRENDING ON TOWNHALL MEDIA
 
Taking Social Security Benefits Now vs. Later
finance.townhall.com
 
 
Former Obama Staffers Are In Mourning Over Murdered Regulations | RedState
redstate.com
 
 
Yes, The Trump Executive Order On Immigration Is Legal
townhall.com
 
 
humanevents.com
 
          
Home RS Gathering Advertise Newsletters Privacy Policy Terms of Use
 Copyright RedState.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you
 `Poor Sales Forced Nordstrom To Drop Ivanka Trump Fashion Line | RedState
