FOX NEWS BLAMED MUSLIM WHO CALLED 911 FOR MOSQUE ATTACK, IT WAS REALLY A NEO-NAZI
JANUARY 30, 2017
SHARE TWEET SHARE SHARE 6 Comments

As we reported, a tragic attack on a mosque in Quebec City, Quebec left six worshippers dead and eight others wounded. In the immediate aftermath of the attack, Fox News and others wasted no time in claiming the attacker was a Muslim. In reality, he’s a white nationalist with extremely anti-immigrant views.

Suspect in Quebec mosque terror attack was of Moroccan origin, reports show https://t.co/oRzxGHEXDm pic.twitter.com/aEsEtccMvi

— Fox News (@FoxNews) January 30, 2017

From the Intercept:

The suspect is neither Moroccan nor Muslim. The Moroccan individual, Mohamed el Khadir, was actually one of the worshippers at the mosque and called 911 to summon the police, and played no role whatsoever in the shooting.

The actual shooting suspect is 27-year-old Alexandre Bissonnette, a white French Canadian who is, by all appearances, a rabid anti-immigrant nationalist. A leader of a local immigration rights groups, François Deschamps, told a local paper he recognized his photo as an anti-immigrant far-right “troll” who has been hostile to the group online.

Bissonnette has since been charged with six counts of murder and five counts of attempted murder. Three of the injured have been stabilized and scheduled for release.

From the CBC:

A woman who identified herself as a neighbour of Bissonnette’s parents in Cap-Rouge said the suspect had recently moved into an apartment that he was renting with his twin brother, not far from the mosque where the shooting occurred.

“He is a child,” she said. “You couldn’t find one more calm than that. He never did anything, he always kept to himself. We never heard of anything.”

“I saw him last Wednesday; he was arriving at his parents’ home. I think he often went there,” the neighbour, who wished to remain anonymous, told Radio-Canada.

Prime Minister Justin Trudeau called the shooting “a despicable act of terror” and told Canada’s 1 million Muslims that they have the full support of their government.

What do you think? Share your thoughts in the comments below.

