TypeError: null is not an object (evaluating 'select_element.setAttribute')

  http://michellemalkin.com/wp-content/themes/malkin/js/mm.js?ver=4.6.1:68
Liberal Event Horizon? Nancy Pelosi said something so wrong it stunned even Maxine Waters
 	
By Doug Powers  •  February 7, 2017 08:49 PM
**Written by Doug Powers
The year is young, but so far this is one of my favorite photo sequences:

Nancy Pelosi’s on gainsaying autopilot again, with a twist. This time the House Minority Leader forgot which Republican president she was slamming:
PELOSI: While it’s only a couple of weeks since the inauguration, there’s complete evidence, there’s prac–we’ve seen nothing that we can work— that I can work with President Bush on, and I’m disappointed because I thought that there might be some interest because of what he said in the campaign which turns out to be not true, a hoax and really dangerous to the economic stability of Americans working families.
Former President George W. Bush might be glad to know he’s gone but not forgotten. However, it was Maxine Waters’ reaction to Pelosi starting at about the 13-second mark that said it all:

Waters might later remind Pelosi that it’ll be harder to achieve the goal of impeaching Trump if she’s still focused on impeaching Bush.
**Written by Doug Powers
Twitter @ThePowersThatBe

blog comments powered by Disqus
Posted in: 2016 Campaign,Democrats,Nancy Pelosi
Printer Friendly


Ninth Circuit keeps Trump’s travel ban blocked; Hillary rubs it in from undisclosed location nowhere near the White House
February 9, 2017 09:00 PM by Doug Powers

Weighing in from the sidelines
Dem Regrets? Dianne Feinstein has one (paging Harry Reid!)
February 9, 2017 04:09 PM by Doug Powers

Self-inflicted party paralysis
Hillary Clinton to release new book & test paid speaker market’s appetite for influence peddlers with no influence
February 1, 2017 10:29 PM by Doug Powers

How to Win Friends and Fail to Influence Swing States
SCOTUS-geddon: Chris Matthews’ leg thrill vaporized by Trump’s apocalyptic ‘shock & awe’ campaign
January 31, 2017 09:21 PM by Doug Powers

The thrill is long gone
Magic Mic: Audio problem leaves totally relatable Nancy Pelosi speechless and in search of ‘real people’
January 31, 2017 10:29 AM by Doug Powers

Symbolic

Categories: 2016 Campaign, Donald Trump, Feature Story, Nancy Pelosi


 

 
AboutContactArchivesColumnsPhotosCRTV
Powered by Sound Strategies Inc.
Design by The BlogStudio
© 2004-2017 – Jazz Mustache LLC ‒ all rights reserved


`Michelle Malkin | » Liberal Event Horizon? Nancy Pelosi said something so wrong it stunned even Maxine Waters
