ReferenceError: Can't find variable: twttr

  http://townhall.com/resources/js/sc.js:18
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in j
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in fireWith
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in ready
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in I
×
 


Townhall Tipsheet  Matt Vespa
HILLARY CLINTON
Say What?! Donald Trump Would Have Won The Popular Vote If It Weren't For Gary Johnson
Matt Vespa |Posted: Feb 12, 2017 9:00 AM  Share (83)   Tweet


So, Donald Trump would have won 1.4 million more popular votes than Hillary Clinton if it weren’t for California’s legions of Democratic voters flocking to Hillary. No, I’m not saying these votes don’t count. They do, but for all the wrong reasons. We all knew California was going to go blue, and that the former first lady would get its 55 electoral votes. That was a foregone conclusion. The point is she won the state, got the votes, but didn’t win because she didn’t think that the Rust Belt or white working class voters mattered. You can’t win just by winning the West Coast, the cities, or a combination of the two, plus the liberal Northeast. That’s the beauty of the Electoral College. Trump won the South, the Plain States, most of the Rocky Mountain States, and the Rust Belt. The point is Clinton got more popular votes, yes. But it was all in the wrong places.

But since liberals can’t shut up about Hillary getting roughly three million more popular votes than Donald Trump in that irrelevant aspect of the presidential election, the reason was simple: California. Alas, why the Electoral College is necessary—it prevents coastal liberal elites from dominating national politics. California represents the political disposition of the country? Not by a long shot. But you know this already.

Just because California liberals hate Trump and ran up the score for Clinton in the popular vote doesn’t mean she won. It just means a lot of Californians voted for Clinton over Trump. Trump won 30 states that earned him 304 votes in the Electoral College.

Now, let’s stop with the removing of states for a bit (yes, I know if Texas were removed, Trump would lose). What about the third party votes? Michael Moore said that if you add up Clinton’s vote totals with that of third party candidates, 54 percent of the country didn’t vote for Trump.

The majority doesn’t like Trump, right? Nope. First of all, these people still didn’t vote for Clinton. Second, and most importantly, it’s highly flawed to just combine vote totals of those who didn’t vote for either candidate and make such a blanket statement to make Trump look bad. Yes, some might have gone to Clinton if these candidates vanished from the ether. But some would have certainly gone for Trump. In Gary Johnson’s case, 75 percent of his voters would have cast their ballot for Trump. Rom Ross, the former chairman of the Delaware GOP spoke with Johnson’s running mate—former Massachusetts Gov. Bill Weld—and delved into some of the Libertarian Party’s internal polling [emphasis mine]:

In our conversation, Governor Weld brought up a fascinating point, a point that has been largely overlooked in the reams of post election analysis. Governor Weld said that Johnson-Weld internal polling showed that 75 percent of their voters would have voted for Donald Trump had they not been in the race. The Libertarian ticket received nearly 4.5 million total votes in the election. It makes logical sense that three fourths of these voters, drawn to a ticket of former, successful two-term Republican Governors, would be more attracted to limited government advocates promising change from the last eight years. In addition, they saw absolutely no appetite amongst their limited government voters to support the Clinton-Kaine ticket.
In short, if the Johnson-Weld ticket had not run, Donald Trump would have won the popular vote.
To be exact, the Johnson/Weld ticket received 4,489,233 votes. Seventy five percent of that would be roughly 3,366,924. Add that to Trump’s 62,985,106 votes and you get 66,352,030 to Clinton’s 65,853,625.

Again, Trump won the Electoral College, which is the only contest that matters on Election Day. But if a liberal wants to rehash the tired and irrelevant talking point that Clinton won more popular votes, just remind that person if the libertarians didn’t run, Trump would have won the popular vote. See how they react. You might want to wear a helmet and pads and possibly bring a fire extinguisher. The Left is really into setting things on fire when they throw a tantrum.

  Share this on Facebook (83)
  Tweet

  by Taboola Sponsored Links Promoted Stories
10 Pictures That Prove Betty White Has Always Been a Babe
Cyber Breeze
New Executive Order: Big Changes for Retirees
Money Morning
Man Who Predicted Trump Win Makes New Prediction
MoneyWise411
15 Deleted Movie Scenes That Were Vital To The Plot
Detonate
by TaboolaMore From TownHall
Frank Luntz: Clinton Will Be President
Tags:  HILLARY CLINTON GARY JOHNSON DONALD TRUMP LIBERTARIAN 2016 ELECTION LIBERTARIAN PARTY POPULAR VOTE PRESIDENT TRUMP TRUMP WHITE HOUSE

Oh, the Irony: Liberals Threaten to Homeschool Kids After DeVos Confirmed as Education Secretary
Leah Barkoukis|  
As The Left Wallows In 'Trump Is Hitler' Hysteria, IJ Review Asked Someone Who Lived Through Nazi Germany If There Are Similarities
Matt Vespa|  
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
Matt Vespa|  
ACLU Is Seeing A Trump-era Surge In Members and Donations

AP News|  
Democratic 2016 Autopsy: The Party Is Dead Without Gains At State Level
Matt Vespa|  


  

CARTOONS | JERRY HOLBERT
VIEW CARTOON 
Most Popular
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
Matt Vespa
Say What?! Donald Trump Would Have Won The Popular Vote If It Weren't For Gary Johnson
Matt Vespa
As The Left Wallows In 'Trump Is Hitler' Hysteria, IJ Review Asked Someone Who Lived Through Nazi Germany If There Are Similarities
Matt Vespa


Trending on Townhall Media
Left-Fascism: Free Speech Restrictions on Campus
TOWNHALL FINANCE
George Soros: Top 10 Reasons He Is Dangerous | Human Events
HUMAN EVENTS
Slam-Fire Shotgun!
BEARING ARMS
A good friend of Trump's just kneecapped Reince Priebus to the WaPost and on CNN
TWITCHY
 
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
TOWNHALL

Justice Department Kills Obama's Pervs-In-the-Girls-Bathroom Rule | RedState
REDSTATE
Video: SNL turns Kellyanne Conway into a crazed, sex-obsessed stalker - Hot Air
HOTAIR
					
Columnists Political Cartoons Tipsheet  Election Results Radio News Video Slideshows Tags Finance Townhall Radio
About Townhall Advertise Privacy Policy Terms of Use Radio Stations Sitemap Jobs  Contact Us Newsletters Townhall Mobile iPhone/Android Apps
  
Townhall.com is the leading source for conservative news and political commentary and analysis.
Copyright © Townhall.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you


`Say What?! Donald Trump Would Have Won The Popular Vote If It Weren't For Gary Johnson - Matt Vespa
