TypeError: null is not an object (evaluating 'select_element.setAttribute')

  http://michellemalkin.com/wp-content/themes/malkin/js/mm.js?ver=4.6.1:68
CPR for stalled political dynasty in progress: Media’s push for Chelsea Clinton to run for ANYTHING accelerates
 	Tweet
By Doug Powers  •  February 3, 2017 09:34 PM
**Written by Doug Powers
Just because Hillary lost in November doesn’t mean the media’s going to stop helping out the Clintons by going to the Dynasty Defibrillation Paddles, and the Washington Post is among the first media outlets to yell, “CLEAR!”
Chelsea Clinton has been in the national public eye for a quarter-century now. And as the only child of both a two-term president and a two-time presidential candidate, the question has long been not whether she would get involved in the family business, but when and where.
Yet Clinton, 36, has never shown a real appetite for the day-to-day food fights involved in politics — never really seemed, well, like a politician. She’s been a public figure, yes, but she has rarely weighed in on the heated debates of the day in anything close to a proactive way. She was a presence on her mother’s campaign, but she’s never really driven a political message.
Until now.
In recent days, we’ve noticed a different Chelsea Clinton — one more than willing to speak out, often a bit bluntly. And she’s speaking out specifically against President Trump, using his preferred medium: Twitter.
This kind of stuff might be the only rumors that can get Hillary’s speaking fees back up to anything close to acceptable levels in 2017:

**Written by Doug Powers
Twitter @ThePowersThatBe
blog comments powered by Disqus
Posted in: Bill Clinton,Hillary Clinton
Printer Friendly


Robert Reich excited about idea for alternate reality inauguration day celebration
December 20, 2016 11:25 AM by Doug Powers

What’s happening is NOT happening!
Go figure! Clinton Foundation’s hurting without a highly placed influence peddler
November 21, 2016 07:25 PM by Doug Powers

Political power is their business, and business is BAD
You might be done with the Clintons, but the Clintons don’t want to be done with YOU
November 11, 2016 12:53 PM by Doug Powers

Desperate attempt to resuscitate the “dynasty”?
Clinton Foundation: Oh, THAT million-dollar donation from Qatar while Hillary was secretary of state!
November 5, 2016 02:52 PM by Doug Powers

Who knew!?
Remember John Edwards’ ‘Two Americas’? Hillary’s running on ‘Two FBI Investigations’
November 2, 2016 09:38 PM by Doug Powers

She can pardon herself later

Categories: 2016 Campaign, Bill Clinton, Corruption, Democrats, Hillary Clinton


 

 
AboutContactArchivesColumnsPhotosCRTV
Powered by Sound Strategies Inc.
Design by The BlogStudio
© 2004-2017 – Jazz Mustache LLC ‒ all rights reserved



 `Michelle Malkin | » CPR for stalled political dynasty in progress: Media’s push for Chelsea Clinton to run for ANYTHING accelerates
