
LOGIN
REGISTER
RS GATHERING
DIARIES
 ×
 

Calm Down: Immigration Raids Under Trump Are The Continuation of Obama Policy SHARE ON FACEBOOK SHARE ON TWITTER

Calm Down: Immigration Raids Under Trump Are The Continuation Of Obama Policy
Posted at 11:35 am on February 11, 2017 by Jay Caruso

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter

 
 
The headlines for the current immigration raids taking place exist in a world where these raids didn’t occur until Donald Trump was sworn in as President.

The NY Times:

Reports of Raids Have Immigrants Bracing for Enforcement Surge
Washington Post:

Federal agents conduct immigration enforcement raids in at least six states
The Hill:

Protests erupt in NYC over immigration enforcement raids
Washington Monthly:

Deportation Force Goes to Work
The problem is, none of this is new. It is merely a continuation of the policy initiated by the Obama administration. From Reuters in May of 2016:

U.S. immigration officials are planning a month-long series of raids in May and June to deport hundreds of Central American mothers and children found to have entered the country illegally, according to sources and an internal document seen by Reuters.

The operation would likely be the largest deportation sweep targeting immigrant families by the administration of President Barack Obama this year after a similar drive over two days in January that focused on Georgia, Texas, and North Carolina.

Those raids, which resulted in the detention of 121 people, mostly women and children, sparked an outcry from immigration advocates and criticism from some Democrats, including the party’s presidential election frontrunner Hillary Clinton.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) has now told field offices nationwide to launch a 30-day “surge” of arrests focused on mothers and children who have already been told to leave the United States, the document seen by Reuters said. The operation would also cover minors who have entered the country without a guardian and since turned 18 years of age, the document said. Two sources confirmed the details of the plan.
In fact, it was reported at the time how it might harm the campaigns of Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders:

Clinton and Sanders are jockeying for their votes, but the administration crackdown is hurting outreach.

Donald Trump and his incendiary immigration rhetoric was supposed to send Latino voters to the polls in droves for Democrats this fall. But the Obama administration’s controversial immigration raids are threatening to weaken the Democrats’ advantage.

The volatile issue of immigration and the power of the Latino vote is coming into sharper focus in advance of the June 7 primary in California, where Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders are showing off their pro-immigrant bona fides in their increasingly contentious nomination fight.
So can we please stop freaking out about these raids?


 
TRENDING
Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration | RedState
Susan Wright
 
Share On Facebook Share On Twitter
  by Taboola Sponsored Links Promoted Stories
15 Deleted Movie Scenes That Were Vital To The Plot
Detonate
Susan Dey Was Stunning in the 70s.. But What She Looks Like Today is Incredible
Definition
We Tried Bombas Socks. Here’s What Happened:
Business Insider | Bombas Socks
Executive Order Could Mean Big Changes for Retirees
Money Morning
by TaboolaMore From RedState
1990's Kenyan Video Surfaces of Obama Complaining About White People, Refusing to Tour With Them

RECENT STORIES

 
No. It is Not Okay to Call Donald Trump “Mentally Ill” as an Insult
Mickey White
 
 
Why is the State of Texas Collecting Millions in Labor Union Dues?
mattmackowiak
 
 
Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration
Susan Wright
 
COMMENTS
POSTING RULES  |  LOGIN TO COMMENT  |  REGISTER TODAY



TRENDING
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
No. It is Not Okay to Call Donald Trump "Mentally Ill" as an Insult
Justice Department Kills Obama's Pervs-In-the-Girls-Bathroom Rule
Why is the State of Texas Collecting Millions in Labor Union Dues?
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The "Idiot" In The White House

 
PUT UP OR SHUT UP: Trump Advisor Claims Voter Fraud; Has No Evidence (VIDEO)
Kimberly Ross
 
 
CBS News Introduces “Nation Tracker” to Study Public Reaction to Trump
Mickey White
 

 
Satanic Temple Valentine’s Day Fundraiser Hopes To Raise Funds For Abortion Lawsuits
Susan Wright
 
 
RedState’s Water Cooler 2/12/17 – Open Thread – Ex Parte Merryman
colonelflagg
 

 
Swedish Government Debases Itself To Suck Up To Iranian Mullahs
streiff
 
 
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
Jay Caruso
 

TRENDING ON TOWNHALL MEDIA
 
Left-Fascism: Free Speech Restrictions on Campus
finance.townhall.com
 
 
Why Martin Luther King Was Republican | Human Events
humanevents.com
 
 
Putin’s “gift” to Trump: The return of Edward Snowden? « Hot Air
hotair.com
 
 
Nimrod Attempts To Collect Darwin Award Firing A .50 BMG Cartridge From a Pipe Gun - Bearing Arms -
bearingarms.com
 
          
Home RS Gathering Advertise Newsletters Privacy Policy Terms of Use
 Copyright RedState.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you
 `Calm Down: Immigration Raids Under Trump Are The Continuation of Obama Policy | RedState
