TypeError: null is not an object (evaluating 'select_element.setAttribute')

  http://michellemalkin.com/wp-content/themes/malkin/js/mm.js?ver=4.6.1:68
Ex-Prez who took nuns to court slams Trump on religious freedom
 	
By Doug Powers  •  January 30, 2017 07:13 PM
**Written by Doug Powers

Ex-President Obama said when leaving office that he would offer his successor the same courtesy that George W. Bush gave him by sparing criticism (unless he felt an urgent need to speak out on something of super-importance). Obama’s pledge to remain on the sidelines lasted just over a week:
Former President Obama “is heartened by the level of engagement taking place in communities around the country,” but he “fundamentally disagrees” with discrimination based on faith or religion, Obama spokesman Kevin Lewis said today.
President Trump signed an executive order on Friday calling for a suspension of immigration from seven Muslim-majority countries with ties to terror, including the suspension of the United States’ acceptance of Syrian refugees. That move was met by protests in airports and city streets nationwide.
[…]
“With regard to comparisons to President Obama’s foreign policy decisions, as we’ve heard before, the President fundamentally disagrees with the notion of discriminating against individuals because of their faith or religion,” Lewis said.
Obama’s unintentional sense of humor was obvious rejuvenated by his recent vacation:



**Written by Doug Powers
Twitter @ThePowersThatBe

blog comments powered by Disqus
Posted in: 2016 Campaign,Barack Obama,Democrats,Donald Trump,Eric Holder,Feature Story
Printer Friendly


Ninth Circuit keeps Trump’s travel ban blocked; Hillary rubs it in from undisclosed location nowhere near the White House
February 9, 2017 09:00 PM by Doug Powers

Weighing in from the sidelines
Dem Regrets? Dianne Feinstein has one (paging Harry Reid!)
February 9, 2017 04:09 PM by Doug Powers

Self-inflicted party paralysis
Liberal Event Horizon? Nancy Pelosi said something so wrong it stunned even Maxine Waters
February 7, 2017 08:49 PM by Doug Powers

Old habits die hard
Hillary Clinton to release new book & test paid speaker market’s appetite for influence peddlers with no influence
February 1, 2017 10:29 PM by Doug Powers

How to Win Friends and Fail to Influence Swing States
SCOTUS-geddon: Chris Matthews’ leg thrill vaporized by Trump’s apocalyptic ‘shock & awe’ campaign
January 31, 2017 09:21 PM by Doug Powers

The thrill is long gone

Categories: 2016 Campaign, Chris Matthews, Democrats, Donald Trump, Media Bias


 

 
AboutContactArchivesColumnsPhotosCRTV
Powered by Sound Strategies Inc.
Design by The BlogStudio
© 2004-2017 – Jazz Mustache LLC ‒ all rights reserved


`Michelle Malkin | » Ex-Prez who took nuns to court slams Trump on religious freedom
