
LOGIN
REGISTER
RS GATHERING
DIARIES
 ×
 

Trump’s Lavish Gift For Visiting Japan PM Raises Some Ethical Concerns (Again) SHARE ON FACEBOOK SHARE ON TWITTER

Trump’s Lavish Gift For Visiting Japan PM Raises Some Ethical Concerns (Again)
Posted at 4:30 pm on February 10, 2017 by Susan Wright

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter

 
 
What we do know about our new president is that he doesn’t give two squats about appearances or potential conflicts of interest.

He also doesn’t know how to be an executive politician, sticking to the ethical rules to avoid the dust-ups that we all know are coming.

According to McClatchydc.com, President Trump will be hosting Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, Florida when the prime minister visits this weekend.

“That is a gift that the president is extending to the prime minister,” White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer said in response to questions about the ethical dilemma of having a world leader stay at one of the Trump hotels.

“President Trump should not be giving personal gifts of significant financial value to foreign leaders, and President Trump should be avoiding even the appearance that he is using public office to promote his personal financial interests,” said John Wonderlich, executive editor of the Sunlight Foundation, which pushes for government openness. “By giving Prime Minister Abe a free stay at Mar-a-Lago, he is promoting his commercial brand, and flouting the ethics standards he was elected, in part, to uphold.”

Only Abe – no other member of the Japanese delegation – will be staying at Mar-a-Lago, Spicer said. “They will stay out in town with the rest of the staff,” he said.
So does that lessen the queasy feeling that some ethicists may be feeling?


 
TRENDING
Former Obama Staffers Are In Mourning Over Murdered Regulations | RedState
streiff
 
It’s different from what Trump declared before being sworn in as president, and it creates an issue, even if Trump says he will foot the bill, himself.

One of Trump’s pledges was that he would donate profits from foreign governments to the U.S. Treasury.

That seems to be one of those magical, disappearing Trump promises, at this point.

It may also create a situation where one could accuse a sitting U.S. president with attempting to bribe a foreign leader.

Trump aides did not say whether they took other countries’ standards into consideration in developing the new policy. Japanese officials did not respond to requests for comment, but gifts valued at more than $45 generally must be reported, according to a United Nations report on corruption.

“President Trump’s payment for the Japanese prime minister’s visit to Mar-a-Lago illustrates the tricky ethics bind that the president has put himself in by refusing to divest from his businesses,” said Paul Seamus Ryan, a vice president at Common Cause, a government watchdog group. “On the one hand, if the Japanese prime minister had paid for his visit to the Trump-owned property, President Trump would arguably be violating the Constitution’s emoluments clause. . . . On the other hand, President Trump paying for the Japanese prime minister’s visit raises the specter of impropriety. Might President Trump be attempting to curry favor with the prime minister for some personal business reasons, or for foreign policy reasons?”
Abe was scheduled to arrive today, then travel to Florida to stay at the resort, and also to play a round of golf.

Norman Eisen, an ethics lawyer who served under President Obama stated that this will serve as a global infomercial for Mar-a-Lago.

He could be right.

Mar-a-Lago recently raised its initiation fee from $100,000 to $200,000. The annual dues are $14,000, and Abe’s night’s stay (assuming he only stays a night) is going to cost about $2,000.

The word is Trump and Abe will talk about security, currency, and a bilateral trade deal, considering Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal.

It remains to be seen if Trump offers the same luxurious weekend stay to other visiting world leaders.

 

 

 

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter
TAGS:DONALD TRUMPJAPANSHINZO ABE
  by Taboola Sponsored Links Promoted Stories
This Is What 2 Cups Of Diet Soda Per Day Will Do To Your Belly
BIO X4 Supplement
Susan Dey Was Stunning in the 70s.. But What She Looks Like Today is Incredible
Definition
Teen Goes Missing In Aruba: But 10 Years Later, Police Uncover Truth
LifeDaily.com
Angelina Jolie's New Go-To Travel Shoe Is Surprisingly Affordable
Vogue | Everlane
by TaboolaMore From RedState
UH OH: CNN Reports Pence Is Considering Dropping Out

RECENT STORIES

 
No. It is Not Okay to Call Donald Trump “Mentally Ill” as an Insult
Mickey White
 
 
Why is the State of Texas Collecting Millions in Labor Union Dues?
mattmackowiak
 
 
Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration
Susan Wright
 
COMMENTS
POSTING RULES  |  LOGIN TO COMMENT  |  REGISTER TODAY



TRENDING
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
No. It is Not Okay to Call Donald Trump "Mentally Ill" as an Insult
Justice Department Kills Obama's Pervs-In-the-Girls-Bathroom Rule
Why is the State of Texas Collecting Millions in Labor Union Dues?
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The "Idiot" In The White House

 
PUT UP OR SHUT UP: Trump Advisor Claims Voter Fraud; Has No Evidence (VIDEO)
Kimberly Ross
 
 
CBS News Introduces “Nation Tracker” to Study Public Reaction to Trump
Mickey White
 

 
Satanic Temple Valentine’s Day Fundraiser Hopes To Raise Funds For Abortion Lawsuits
Susan Wright
 
 
RedState’s Water Cooler 2/12/17 – Open Thread – Ex Parte Merryman
colonelflagg
 

 
Swedish Government Debases Itself To Suck Up To Iranian Mullahs
streiff
 
 
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
Jay Caruso
 

RELATED STORIES
 
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The “Idiot” In The White House
Susan Wright
 
 
Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration
Susan Wright
 
TRENDING ON TOWNHALL MEDIA
 
Sears may sell land, cut jobs to save $1B; shares soar
finance.townhall.com
 
 
A Maniac Is Running Our Foreign Policy! (It's Not Trump) | Human Events
humanevents.com
 
 
The spy revolt against Trump begins « Hot Air Headlines
hotair.com
 
 
5 Stories You Shouldn't Miss From This Week's Second Amendment News
bearingarms.com
 
          
Home RS Gathering Advertise Newsletters Privacy Policy Terms of Use
 Copyright RedState.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you
`Trump's Lavish Gift For Visiting Japan PM Raises Some Ethical Concerns (Again) | RedState
