TypeError: null is not an object (evaluating 'select_element.setAttribute')

  http://michellemalkin.com/wp-content/themes/malkin/js/mm.js?ver=4.6.1:68
Michael Moore leads ‘star-studded’ anti-Trump protest in NYC to prove they learned nothing from the election
 	
By Doug Powers  •  January 19, 2017 07:31 PM
**Written by Doug Powers

There’s probably nobody happier with the election of Donald Trump than Michael Moore, and maybe his progressive Hollywood friends will reward him with another Oscar for acting so incredibly concerned about current events that could provide an opportunity to score with a sequel to “Fahrenheit 911.” They’ve waited many years for another president to hate:
Director Michael Moore held a massive protest Thursday night outside Trump’s New York City International Hotel, featuring speeches from prominent figures including actors Robert De Niro and Mark Ruffalo.
The protest started at 6 p.m. with Robert De Niro poking fun at Trump by reading off imagined tweets from the president-elect. It was followed by speeches from Moore, Alec Baldwin, New York Mayor Bill De Blasio, Ruffalo and Rev. Al Sharpton, among others.
Moore started off saying it is a “very dangerous” time in the United States, calling Trump a “sociopath.”
“With a lot of work on our part, we will stop this man,” Moore said. “He will not last four years.”
Gee, what would Moore’s reaction have been if a prominent figure on the Right said at the start of Obama’s presidency “he will not last four years”? Secret Service, do your stuff!
The “keep Hollywood relevant” rally brought in some celebs for what amounted to little more than glorified group grief counseling:
Some familiar faces who will be in attendance and taking the podium to speak are: Mark Ruffalo, 49, Robert de Niro, 73, Cher, 70, Sally Fields, 70, Reverend Al Sharpton, 62, Alec Baldwin, 58, Julianne Moore, 56, Mayor Bill de Blasio, 55, Marisa Tomei, 52, Rosie Perez, 52, Cynthia Nixon, 50, and Shailene Woodley, 25.
A bunch of rich liberals in New York City? There’s something you don’t see every day! The “protest” was scheduled 6-8 p.m. I’m assuming any later would be infringing on some bed times. Fun fact: Cher’s actually using the protest to kick off her 47th annual Farewell Tour.
Alec Baldwin helped kick things off with his Trump impression, which is sure to bring down the next presidency. Does it seem like these people are not-so-secretly enjoying what’s happened?

I’d suggest that Moore take his star-studded cast of lefties to Michigan to show solidarity with the 4th grade teacher who’s refusing to show his students Trump’s inaugural speech, but I’m dangerously close to that part of the state, so no thanks.
Update:
Well played (via @RandomSense):

**Written by Doug Powers
Twitter @ThePowersThatBe

blog comments powered by Disqus
Posted in: 2016 Campaign,Donald Trump,Hillary Clinton,Hollyweird
Printer Friendly


Ninth Circuit keeps Trump’s travel ban blocked; Hillary rubs it in from undisclosed location nowhere near the White House
February 9, 2017 09:00 PM by Doug Powers

Weighing in from the sidelines
Dem Regrets? Dianne Feinstein has one (paging Harry Reid!)
February 9, 2017 04:09 PM by Doug Powers

Self-inflicted party paralysis
Liberal Event Horizon? Nancy Pelosi said something so wrong it stunned even Maxine Waters
February 7, 2017 08:49 PM by Doug Powers

Old habits die hard
Hillary Clinton to release new book & test paid speaker market’s appetite for influence peddlers with no influence
February 1, 2017 10:29 PM by Doug Powers

How to Win Friends and Fail to Influence Swing States
SCOTUS-geddon: Chris Matthews’ leg thrill vaporized by Trump’s apocalyptic ‘shock & awe’ campaign
January 31, 2017 09:21 PM by Doug Powers

The thrill is long gone

Categories: 2016 Campaign, Chris Matthews, Democrats, Donald Trump, Media Bias


 

 
AboutContactArchivesColumnsPhotosCRTV
Powered by Sound Strategies Inc.
Design by The BlogStudio
© 2004-2017 – Jazz Mustache LLC ‒ all rights reserved


`Michelle Malkin | » Michael Moore leads ‘star-studded’ anti-Trump protest in NYC to prove they learned nothing from the election
