TypeError: null is not an object (evaluating 'select_element.setAttribute')

  http://michellemalkin.com/wp-content/themes/malkin/js/mm.js?ver=4.6.1:68
Fail to the Chief: Lawmaker proposes Hillary Clinton Almost-Presidential Museum
 	
By Doug Powers  •  January 18, 2017 07:57 AM
**Written by Doug Powers
Possibly coming soon to a Chappaqua garage near you, a place that might come to be known colloquially as the Smashed Server Smithsonian:
An “almost presidential” museum should be built in Westchester County to recognize Hillary Clinton and other presidential candidates who won the popular vote but lost, Greenburgh’s town supervisor says.
Paul Feiner, a Democrat, said he isn’t suggesting using town or government funding for a museum or library, but wants a local college to take on the project, which he says would boost tourism in the area.
“Whether people like Hillary or don’t like Hillary, we should take advantage that she’s played an important role in American history and politics,” Feiner told The Journal News/lohud on Monday.
[…]
The museum, he said, could focus on documenting Clinton’s rise as the first female nominee for president of one of the major political parties. It could also gather the papers of other “almost presidents” and their contributions.
It’d be the world’s most boring document political document archive, because Team Hillary deleted all the good stuff.
Yell “WHY AREN’T I 50 POINTS AHEAD YOU MIGHT ASK” at the door for a 25-percent discount on admission.
**Written by Doug Powers
Twitter @ThePowersThatBe

blog comments powered by Disqus
Posted in: 2016 Campaign,Hillary Clinton
Printer Friendly


Ninth Circuit keeps Trump’s travel ban blocked; Hillary rubs it in from undisclosed location nowhere near the White House
February 9, 2017 09:00 PM by Doug Powers

Weighing in from the sidelines
Dem Regrets? Dianne Feinstein has one (paging Harry Reid!)
February 9, 2017 04:09 PM by Doug Powers

Self-inflicted party paralysis
Liberal Event Horizon? Nancy Pelosi said something so wrong it stunned even Maxine Waters
February 7, 2017 08:49 PM by Doug Powers

Old habits die hard
Hillary Clinton to release new book & test paid speaker market’s appetite for influence peddlers with no influence
February 1, 2017 10:29 PM by Doug Powers

How to Win Friends and Fail to Influence Swing States
SCOTUS-geddon: Chris Matthews’ leg thrill vaporized by Trump’s apocalyptic ‘shock & awe’ campaign
January 31, 2017 09:21 PM by Doug Powers

The thrill is long gone

Categories: 2016 Campaign, Chris Matthews, Democrats, Donald Trump, Media Bias


 

 
AboutContactArchivesColumnsPhotosCRTV
Powered by Sound Strategies Inc.
Design by The BlogStudio
© 2004-2017 – Jazz Mustache LLC ‒ all rights reserved


`Michelle Malkin | » Fail to the Chief: Lawmaker proposes Hillary Clinton Almost-Presidential Museum
