TypeError: null is not an object (evaluating 'select_element.setAttribute')

  http://michellemalkin.com/wp-content/themes/malkin/js/mm.js?ver=4.6.1:68
Go figure! Al Gore not eager to explain why ‘tipping point’ passed with no climate apocalypse yet in sight
 	Tweet
By Doug Powers  •  January 25, 2017 04:12 PM
**Written by Doug Powers
The world successfully lived through Al Gore’s 2006 Inconvenient Truth “10-year tipping point” a year ago:
In January, 2006 — when promoting his Oscar-winning (yes, Oscar-winning) documentary, An Inconvenient Truth — Gore declared that unless we took “drastic measures” to reduce greenhouse gasses, the world would reach a “point of no return” in a mere ten years. He called it a “true planetary emergency.” Well, the ten years passed today, we’re still here, and the climate activists have postponed the apocalypse. Again.
At the Sundance Film Festival, something that rarely happens occurred: Gore was in some position to get called on his BS. Unfortunately though he was also in a position to duck and dodge:
Gore was trudging through the snow to his oversized Chevy Suburban SUV, when the undercover agent asked an inconvenient question of Gore.
Climate Depot’s Undercover reporter at Sundance: “Hey Al, I just saw ‘Inconvenient’.”
Gore: “Oh great, thank you!”
Climate Depot’s Undercover reporter at Sundance: “My friends make fun of me about the 10-year tipping point, what do I tell them?”
Gore: “Well, we gotta keep working.” Gore then gives a momentary stare and then ignores the question and enters his “Executive Car Service” Chevy Suburban and departs on the snowy street.
Video a the link.
Don’t take it so hard, Al, I’m sure the climate apocalypse will come sooner or later — especially if you keep using private jets and SUV convoys.
**Written by Doug Powers
Twitter @ThePowersThatBe

blog comments powered by Disqus
Posted in: Al Gore,Enviro-nitwits
Printer Friendly


Dems worried Trump’s pick to head EPA could spell end of life as we know it (a bigger threat than air conditioners!)
December 8, 2016 11:31 AM by Doug Powers

Invasion of the Regulation Snatchers?
The metaphor gods were smiling upon Fidel Castro’s funeral procession
December 5, 2016 05:28 AM by Doug Powers

Carbon footprint limited
Al Gore in south Florida to campaign for Hillary, quietly weep in courthouse closet next to dusty box of 16-year-old ballots
October 11, 2016 11:17 AM by Doug Powers

Brace for spike in reports of clown sightings
Team Hillary successfully convinces Al Gore to spearhead millennial basement dweller outreach
October 6, 2016 08:55 PM by Doug Powers

It’s getting to be too much to bear
Chakra & Awe: Lagging in the polls, Team Hillary tries to enlist Al Gore to scare millennials into voting for her
September 15, 2016 10:22 PM by Doug Powers

Vote Trump or third party and YOU WILL DIE!

Categories: Al Gore, Enviro-nitwits, Feature Story, global warming, Hillary Clinton


 

 
AboutContactArchivesColumnsPhotosCRTV
Powered by Sound Strategies Inc.
Design by The BlogStudio
© 2004-2017 – Jazz Mustache LLC ‒ all rights reserved


`Michelle Malkin | » Go figure! Al Gore not eager to explain why ‘tipping point’ passed with no climate apocalypse yet in sight
