ReferenceError: Can't find variable: twttr

  http://townhall.com/resources/js/sc.js:18
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in j
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in fireWith
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in ready
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in I
×
 


Townhall Tipsheet  Matt Vespa
JEFF SESSIONS
Kaine: I Haven't Seen The Evidence That Sessions Can Rise Above His GOP, Deep South Roots To Be A Good AG
Matt Vespa |Posted: Feb 10, 2017 11:50 AM  Share (2K)   Tweet


With Jeff Sessions now serving as attorney general of the United States, Sen. Tim Kaine (D-VA) is probably one of many liberals who doesn’t have much faith that he can be “a true law keeper,” using the words of MSNBC’s Chris Matthews. The MSNBC host interviewed Kaine last night:


“They may come from parts of the country that are segregated like, Justice Hugo Black, and people like that; there were Klan members—Bobby Byrd, former Senate leader of the Democratic Party and have risen above that sort of—what you might call local thinking or parochial thinking. You don’t think Mr. Sessions is capable of that. Coming from the Deep South, he’s not able to transcend that and become true American law keeper.”
“Chris, I just haven’t seen the evidence,” replied Kaine.

Kaine mentioned discussed Sessions’ refusal to work with Democrats on fixing the Voting Rights Act, when section 4(b) of the act was ruled unconstitutional due to violations of federalism and “equal sovereignty of the states.” That section provided preclearance to voting districts with a history of disenfranchisement that forced them to get approval by the Department of Justice prior to changing aspects of their election law. There is no area of the country where poll taxes, literacy tests, and other egregious methods aimed at keeping blacks from voting are used en masse. And no, voter ID laws are not the reemergence of Jim Crow, but that’s a matter for another time. Kaine also expressed his concerns about Sessions’ views on enhanced interrogation, noting that the DOJ needs to be the check on an overreaching executive.

You mean, like when Obama enacted DAPA and DACA for illegal aliens and unilaterally pushed back the deadline of the employer-based mandate in Obamacare that was passed by Congress. So, when a Democratic president arguably violates separation of powers and passed legislation from the executive, it’s not a problem—but when a Republican president starts passing executive orders on immigration and national security measures, it’s an assault on democracy.

Frankly, for any liberal who has doubts about Sessions, just be honest with yourself. It’s because he’s a Republican from the Deep South.

Sessions took on the Alabama Ku Klux Klan, pushed for the death penalty for one of its leaders for murdering a black teenager, and fought to desegregate schools when he was a U.S. Attorney, but there's no evidence that he can be a good attorney general, or something. 

  Share this on Facebook (2K)
  Tweet

  by Taboola Sponsored Links Promoted Stories
New Executive Order: Big Changes for Retirees
Money Morning
10 Pictures That Prove Betty White Has Always Been a Babe
Cyber Breeze
Man Who Predicted Trump Win Makes New Prediction
MoneyWise411
15 Deleted Movie Scenes That Were Vital To The Plot
Detonate
by TaboolaMore From TownHall
CNN Host Asks Tim Kaine Not to Be So Melodramatic About GOP's Obamacare Repeal Effort
Tags:  JEFF SESSIONS TIM KAINE SENATE DEMOCRATS ATTORNEY GENERAL

Say What?! Donald Trump Would Have Won The Popular Vote If It Weren't For Gary Johnson
Matt Vespa|  
Oh, the Irony: Liberals Threaten to Homeschool Kids After DeVos Confirmed as Education Secretary
Leah Barkoukis|  
As The Left Wallows In 'Trump Is Hitler' Hysteria, IJ Review Asked Someone Who Lived Through Nazi Germany If There Are Similarities
Matt Vespa|  
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
Matt Vespa|  
ACLU Is Seeing A Trump-era Surge In Members and Donations

AP News|  


  

CARTOONS | JERRY HOLBERT
VIEW CARTOON 
Most Popular
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
Matt Vespa
Say What?! Donald Trump Would Have Won The Popular Vote If It Weren't For Gary Johnson
Matt Vespa
As The Left Wallows In 'Trump Is Hitler' Hysteria, IJ Review Asked Someone Who Lived Through Nazi Germany If There Are Similarities
Matt Vespa


Trending on Townhall Media
NBC News Spreads Fear, Lies With "Ghost Gun" Fake News
BEARING ARMS
Left-Fascism: Free Speech Restrictions on Campus
TOWNHALL FINANCE
A good friend of Trump's just kneecapped Reince Priebus to the WaPost and on CNN
TWITCHY
George Soros: Top 10 Reasons He Is Dangerous | Human Events
HUMAN EVENTS
 
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
TOWNHALL

Justice Department Kills Obama's Pervs-In-the-Girls-Bathroom Rule | RedState
REDSTATE
Video: SNL turns Kellyanne Conway into a crazed, sex-obsessed stalker - Hot Air
HOTAIR
					
Columnists Political Cartoons Tipsheet  Election Results Radio News Video Slideshows Tags Finance Townhall Radio
About Townhall Advertise Privacy Policy Terms of Use Radio Stations Sitemap Jobs  Contact Us Newsletters Townhall Mobile iPhone/Android Apps
  
Townhall.com is the leading source for conservative news and political commentary and analysis.
Copyright © Townhall.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you


`Kaine: I Haven't Seen The Evidence That Sessions Can Rise Above His GOP, Deep South Roots To Be A Good AG - Matt Vespa
