TypeError: null is not an object (evaluating 'select_element.setAttribute')

  http://michellemalkin.com/wp-content/themes/malkin/js/mm.js?ver=4.6.1:68
A little rumor birdie told Robert Reich the ‘right-wing’ was behind Berkeley violence
 	
By Doug Powers  •  February 3, 2017 12:48 PM
**Written by Doug Powers
Former Bill Clinton Labor Secretary Robert Reich, with some help from CNN’s Don Lemon, sees “right-wing” fingerprints (via the always reliable “rumors”) all over the riot at UC Berkeley:
“There’s rumors that they actually were right-wingers. They were a part of a kind of group that was organized and ready to create the kind of tumult and danger you saw that forced the police to cancel the event,” Reich insisted. “So Donald Trump, when he says Berkeley doesn’t respect free speech rights, that’s a complete distortion of the truth.”
“You think it’s a strategy by [Milo Yiannopoulos] or right-wingers?” asked host Don Lemon.
“I wouldn’t bet against it,” Reich said. “I saw these people. They all looked very– almost paramilitary. They were not from the campus. I don’t want to say factually, but I’ve heard there was some relationship here between these people and the right-wing movement that is affiliated with Breitbart News.”
And if you need more convincing, Reich’s best friend’s sister’s boyfriend’s brother’s girlfriend knows this guy who’s going with this girl who knows this kid who saw conservatives destroying property in Berkeley that night. I’m convinced!
I don’t want to hear another word about “fake news” from these tools:

**Written by Doug Powers
Twitter @ThePowersThatBe

blog comments powered by Disqus
Posted in: Democrats,Politics
Printer Friendly


Dem Regrets? Dianne Feinstein has one (paging Harry Reid!)
February 9, 2017 04:09 PM by Doug Powers

Self-inflicted party paralysis
Liberal Event Horizon? Nancy Pelosi said something so wrong it stunned even Maxine Waters
February 7, 2017 08:49 PM by Doug Powers

Old habits die hard
Hillary Clinton stakes claim on future in name of liberal women who shouldn’t have to wonder why they’re not ahead by 50 points
February 7, 2017 11:01 AM by Doug Powers

Definition of insanity
SCOTUS-geddon: Chris Matthews’ leg thrill vaporized by Trump’s apocalyptic ‘shock & awe’ campaign
January 31, 2017 09:21 PM by Doug Powers

The thrill is long gone
Cue awkward silence: North Dakota tax commish keeping eye out for W2 and 1099 forms from paid Standing Rock agitators
January 31, 2017 01:54 PM by Doug Powers

Checkmate

Categories: Democrats, Enviro-nitwits


 

 
AboutContactArchivesColumnsPhotosCRTV
Powered by Sound Strategies Inc.
Design by The BlogStudio
© 2004-2017 – Jazz Mustache LLC ‒ all rights reserved


`Michelle Malkin | » A little rumor birdie told Robert Reich the ‘right-wing’ was behind Berkeley violence
