ReferenceError: Can't find variable: twttr

  http://townhall.com/resources/js/sc.js:18
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in j
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in fireWith
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in ready
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in I
×
 


Townhall Tipsheet  Matt Vespa
HILLARY CLINTON
Separation: Lefty Woman Ends 22-Year Marriage Because Her Husband Voted For Trump
Matt Vespa |Posted: Feb 10, 2017 2:05 PM  Share (441)   Tweet


The 2016 election saw the ending of some friendships, family gatherings growing tenser, and now marriages are on the chopping block. No, seriously—some people are calling it quits because their spouse voted for President Donald Trump, like this retired California prison guard who decided to end her 22-year marriage because her husband, a conservative Republican, voted for Trump (via Reuters):

For Gayle McCormick, it is particularly wrenching: she has separated from her husband of 22 years.
The retired California prison guard, a self-described "Democrat leaning toward socialist," was stunned when her husband casually mentioned during a lunch with friends last year that he planned to vote for Trump – a revelation she described as a "deal breaker."
"It totally undid me that he could vote for Trump," said McCormick, 73, who had not thought of leaving the conservative Republican before but felt "betrayed" by his support for Trump.
"I felt like I had been fooling myself," she said. "It opened up areas between us I had not faced before. I realized how far I had gone in my life to accept things I would have never accepted when I was younger."
[…]
The Reuters/Ipsos poll of 6,426 people, taken from Dec. 27 to Jan. 18, shows the number of respondents who argued with family and friends over politics jumped 6 percentage points from a pre-election poll at the height of the campaign in October, up to 39 percent from 33 percent.
Oh, get a grip, lady. My parents have been voting differently for decades (Ma is a Democrat, Dad is a Republican) and they haven’t flocked to the lawyers. It’s an election for God’s sake. It’s not like he was caught with cocaine and hookers. Then, I could see you facing those uncharted areas mentioned before, but whatever—do what you want. Last Thanksgiving, The New York Times reported how families were canceling dinner plans over the election, with some planning special events, like weddings, in ways where their Trump-supporting relatives wouldn’t be able to attend. It’s ridiculous. And congressional Democrats are exhibiting this tantrum as well, delaying cabinet nominees votes that they think are the spawns of Satan.

Luckily, Reuters added that a healthy portion of friendships hasn’t been impacted by this election:

At the same time, many people reported their relationships have not suffered because of the election. The poll found about 40 percent had not argued with a family member or friend over the race.
The election also enabled a significant number to forge new bonds - 21 percent said they became friends with someone they did not know because of the election, though the poll question did not ask respondents to specify if the friendship was with someone from a different party.
Sandi Corbin, a retiree in East Galesburg, Illinois, said she has visited some of the new friends she made because of their shared support for Clinton. "We talk all the time now," she said. "I would say that's a plus from the election."
  Share this on Facebook (441)
  Tweet

  by Taboola Sponsored Links Promoted Stories
We Tried Nutrisystem: Here's What We Learned
Popdust for Nutrisystem
10 Pictures That Prove Betty White Has Always Been a Babe
Cyber Breeze
New Executive Order: Big Changes for Retirees
Money Morning
Woman Goes Missing From Disney Cruise: But 6 Years Later, Police Uncover Truth
LifeDaily.com
by TaboolaMore From TownHall
CNN Wanted Leftist Kid To Ask A Fluff Question To Pelosi At Town Hall Event. That Didn't Happen
Tags:  HILLARY CLINTON DONALD TRUMP 2016 ELECTION

Say What?! Donald Trump Would Have Won The Popular Vote If It Weren't For Gary Johnson
Matt Vespa|  
Oh, the Irony: Liberals Threaten to Homeschool Kids After DeVos Confirmed as Education Secretary
Leah Barkoukis|  
As The Left Wallows In 'Trump Is Hitler' Hysteria, IJ Review Asked Someone Who Lived Through Nazi Germany If There Are Similarities
Matt Vespa|  
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
Matt Vespa|  
ACLU Is Seeing A Trump-era Surge In Members and Donations

AP News|  


  

CARTOONS | JERRY HOLBERT
VIEW CARTOON 
Most Popular
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
Matt Vespa
Say What?! Donald Trump Would Have Won The Popular Vote If It Weren't For Gary Johnson
Matt Vespa
As The Left Wallows In 'Trump Is Hitler' Hysteria, IJ Review Asked Someone Who Lived Through Nazi Germany If There Are Similarities
Matt Vespa


Trending on Townhall Media
NBC News Spreads Fear, Lies With "Ghost Gun" Fake News
BEARING ARMS
Left-Fascism: Free Speech Restrictions on Campus
TOWNHALL FINANCE
A good friend of Trump's just kneecapped Reince Priebus to the WaPost and on CNN
TWITCHY
George Soros: Top 10 Reasons He Is Dangerous | Human Events
HUMAN EVENTS
 
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
TOWNHALL

Justice Department Kills Obama's Pervs-In-the-Girls-Bathroom Rule | RedState
REDSTATE
Video: SNL turns Kellyanne Conway into a crazed, sex-obsessed stalker - Hot Air
HOTAIR
					
Columnists Political Cartoons Tipsheet  Election Results Radio News Video Slideshows Tags Finance Townhall Radio
About Townhall Advertise Privacy Policy Terms of Use Radio Stations Sitemap Jobs  Contact Us Newsletters Townhall Mobile iPhone/Android Apps
  
Townhall.com is the leading source for conservative news and political commentary and analysis.
Copyright © Townhall.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you


 `Separation: Lefty Woman Ends 22-Year Marriage Because Her Husband Voted For Trump - Matt Vespa
