TypeError: null is not an object (evaluating 'a.appendChild')

  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:27 in k
  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:27 in n
  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:27 in toJSON
  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:28 in loadEmbed

LOGIN
REGISTER
RS GATHERING
DIARIES
 ×
 

Former Obama Staffers Are In Mourning Over Murdered Regulations SHARE ON FACEBOOK SHARE ON TWITTER

Former Obama Staffers Are In Mourning Over Murdered Regulations
Posted at 11:04 am on February 12, 2017 by streiff

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter

 
 
This is one of the most delicious articles I’ve ever read. I mean ever. Not only is is chock full of schadenfreude but it underscores the extent to which the Democrats know that the regulatory state is leaching power from Congress and arrogating it to civil servants who answer to absolutely no one and why that shift of power is critical to their agenda.

Joe Pizarchik (is that a real name?) spent more than seven years working on a regulation to protect streams from mountaintop removal coal mining.

It took Congress 25 hours to kill it.
…
“My biggest disappointment is a majority in Congress ignored the will of the people,” said Pizarchik, who directed the Interior Department’s Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement from 2009 through January. “They ignored the interests of the people in coal country, they ignored the law and they put corporate money ahead of all that.”
This is such a crock of lies. The people, acting through their elected representatives, decided that an unnecessary regulation that had a singular purpose, to wit, destroying the coal mining industry, should be repealed. The people charged with making laws in this nation repealed the rule. It is a pretty simple concept and one that has held us in good stead since 1787.


 
TRENDING
Satanic Temple Valentine's Day Fundraiser Hopes To Raise Funds For Abortion Lawsuits | RedState
Susan Wright
 
But there is more:

“It’s devastating, of course,” said Alexandra Teitz, a longtime Democratic Hill aide who joined Interior’s Bureau of Land Management in 2014 as a counselor to the agency’s director and worked on a rule to curb methane waste from oil and gas production. A House-passed Congressional Review Act resolution targeting that rule awaits action in the Senate.
…
“If there had been more time and Congress had not rushed this through but had actually deliberated on what was in the rule, [then] the results would have been different,” Pizarchik said.
…
“I can’t venture to say that that many people, when they’re being honest, have actually read the rule,” said Brandi Colander, who was Interior’s deputy assistant secretary for land and minerals management before leaving in September for the National Wildlife Federation.

“I think that when cooler heads really can prevail and you push the politics to the side, we should really be asking ourselves, should we be able, with the stroke of a pen, without requiring people to read it and not even giving these rules a chance to see the light of day — is that actually good governance?” she added.
The real question, of course, is is it good governance to have people with no actual skin in the game making rules that devastate economies for the sake of getting a plaque and plaudits from lobbying groups set about to devastate communities and destroy livelihoods? Because that is what these, to coin a phrase, sh**-gibbons are espousing.

If you think this doesn’t imperil their agenda and worldview, you are sadly mistaken. These people are claiming that Congress has no authority to actually make law.

Pizarchik is already working on ideas to write a new version of the stream rule under a future president, though he declined to share any details. He also hinted someone could mount a constitutional challenge to the review act itself, which critics have long argued tramples on the separation of powers.

“I believe there’s a good chance that, in a legal challenge, that a court will overturn Congress’ actions here as an unconstitutional usurpation of the executive branch’s powers,” he (that would be Joe Pizarchik) said.
The whole idea that federal agencies can make regulations that have the effect of law and actually supersede laws enacted by state legislatures is relatively new. The very authority that these agencies have has been delegated to them from Congress, it isn’t found in the Constitution. What Pizarchik is advocating is the creation of a separate process for governing the nation and one that is unaccountable to the people at any point. That should be terrifying to everyone, right and left.

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter
TAGS:CONGRESSCONGRESSIONAL REVIEW ACTREGULATORY STATE
  by Taboola Sponsored Links Promoted Stories
Susan Dey Was Stunning in the 70s.. But What She Looks Like Today is Incredible
Definition
10 Pictures That Prove Betty White Has Always Been a Babe
Cyber Breeze
See The Glasses Site Everyone In Seattle Is Shopping
GlassesUSA.com
We Tried Bombas Socks. Here’s What Happened:
Business Insider | Bombas Socks
by TaboolaMore From RedState
1990's Kenyan Video Surfaces of Obama Complaining About White People, Refusing to Tour With Them

RECENT STORIES

 
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The “Idiot” In The White House
Susan Wright
 
 
Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration
Susan Wright
 
 
PUT UP OR SHUT UP: Trump Advisor Claims Voter Fraud; Has No Evidence (VIDEO)
Kimberly Ross
 
COMMENTS
POSTING RULES  |  LOGIN TO COMMENT  |  REGISTER TODAY



TRENDING
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
Justice Department Kills Obama's Pervs-In-the-Girls-Bathroom Rule
No. It is Not Okay to Call Donald Trump "Mentally Ill" as an Insult
Why is the State of Texas Collecting Millions in Labor Union Dues?
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The "Idiot" In The White House

 
Politico Rallies the Futile Resistance Declaring Trump Weak and Ineffectual
Dan Spencer
 
 
Satanic Temple Valentine’s Day Fundraiser Hopes To Raise Funds For Abortion Lawsuits
Susan Wright
 

 
RedState’s Water Cooler 2/12/17 – Open Thread – Ex Parte Merryman
colonelflagg
 
 
Swedish Government Debases Itself To Suck Up To Iranian Mullahs
streiff
 

 
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
Jay Caruso
 
 
Department of Education Proves We Need Reform in One Misspelled Tweet
Mickey White
 

RELATED STORIES
 
Former Obama Staffers Are In Mourning Over Murdered Regulations
streiff
 
 
Do We Want the Tax Code to Prioritize Job Exporters – or Job Importers?
Seton Motley
 
TRENDING ON TOWNHALL MEDIA
 
Taking Social Security Benefits Now vs. Later
finance.townhall.com
 
 
Why is the State of Texas Collecting Millions in Labor Union Dues? | RedState
redstate.com
 
 
Donald Trump Has Caused The Left to Lose Its Mind
townhall.com
 
 
Supreme Court Picks | Human Events
humanevents.com
 
          
Home RS Gathering Advertise Newsletters Privacy Policy Terms of Use
 Copyright RedState.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you
 `Former Obama Staffers Are In Mourning Over Murdered Regulations | RedState
