Sign in / Sign up
HOMECLIMATEPOLITICSCONFLICTS OF INTERESTHEALTH CAREIMMIGRATIONFEATURESVIDEORESIST

Zack Ford
LGBT Editor at ThinkProgress.org. Gay, Atheist, Pianist, Unapologetic “Social Justice Warrior.” Contact me: zford@thinkprogress.org.
Dec 19, 2016
You can go hunting with Trump’s two sons for $1 million
For the right price, you can even go hunting with Eric and Donald Trump, Jr.


CREDIT: AP Photo/Evan Vucci

The day after his inauguration, a group of people with enough money will have the chance to hang out with President Donald Trump and even get to go hunting with his sons.
That’s according to a draft invitation obtained by TMZ for an “Opening Day” reception on January 21 at the Washington Convention Center. The event will “celebrate the great American tradition of outdoor sporting, shooting, fishing, and conservation,” and the highest sponsors (those shelling out $1 million and $500,000) will receive a private reception and photo opportunity with Trump, as well as a “multi-day hunting and/or fishing excursion” with Donald Trump Jr. and/or Eric Trump.
Both Donald Jr. and Eric have been actively involved with the Trump transition, and Trump campaign manager Kellyanne Conway has indicated it’s still possible they might have positions in the West Wing. This is despite the fact that Trump has indicated they will manage his business while he’s President.

This is only the latest example of access to the Trump family — and thus his administration — being for sale. Ivanka Trump, who is considering moving to DC and possibly even serving as de-facto First Lady, recently attempted to auction off a coffee date for $50,000 through CharityBuzz, but it was abruptly canceled after many questioned the ethics of so blatantly selling special access to the first family. According to the Trump Organization, they decided to hold off on the auction until “our team was aligned on steps moving forward.”
Federal officials have also indicated that Trump must give up ownership of his hotel in Washington, D.C. or be in violation of his contract. There are already indications that booking the hotel is being seen as a conduit for winning Trump’s favor.
Bahrainian event at Trump’s swanky hotel is type of thing Constitution is designed to prevent

Exactly the sort of thing the Constitution is supposed to prevent.
thinkprogress.org	
The “Opening Day” reception’s hosts include John Morris, CEO of Bass Pro Shops, former racecar driver Richard Childress, and Dallas moguls Tommy Hicks, Jr. and Gentry Beach. It’s organized by The McIntosh Company, which has previously organized several meet-and-greets with the Trump family and other prominent conservatives. Toby Keith and Alabama are among those slated to perform at the event.
According to TMZ’s sources, the event is a thank you to the hunting, shooting, and fishing communities for their support of Trump’s election. Despite the promise of a reception and photo-op with the newly elected president, it’s still not clear if Trump himself will attend, but the event is organized by his family.
As the Daily Mail points out, Eric and Donald Jr. have often shown off their love of hunting, often posting controversial pictures posing with the big game they have killed. PETA President Ingrid Newkirk said in a statement that she hopes Trump won’t attend, because despite his sons’ passion, he has previously said that he is “not a believer in hunting.”

Donald TrumpPoliticsTrump TransitionConflicts Of Interest
21
21
Follow

Zack Ford
LGBT Editor at ThinkProgress.org. Gay, Atheist, Pianist, Unapologetic “Social Justice Warrior.” Contact me: zford@thinkprogress.org.
Follow

ThinkProgress
Moving news forward.

Never miss a story from ThinkProgress
GET UPDATES
`You can go hunting with Trump’s two sons for $1 million
