
LOGIN
REGISTER
RS GATHERING
DIARIES
 ×
 

WE PERSIST: Defund Planned Parenthood Protests To Be Held In 218 Cities Today SHARE ON FACEBOOK SHARE ON TWITTER

WE PERSIST: Defund Planned Parenthood Protests To Be Held In 218 Cities Today
Posted at 9:30 am on February 11, 2017 by Kimberly Ross

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter

 
 
The mainstream media is eager to cover protesting, but only when it fits their agenda.

The media has no interest in giving proper coverage to large, well-organized, non-violent, multi-state rallies promoting the worth of life and calling out the nation’s largest abortion provider, Planned Parenthood. That is exactly what is scheduled to take place today with #ProtestPP rallies nationwide.

But I’m sure you’ve heard nothing about them.

From the #ProtestPP website:

On February 11, 2017, rallies will be held at Planned Parenthood locations throughout the United States to call on Congress and President Trump to strip Planned Parenthood of all federal funding and reallocate those funds to health centers that help disadvantaged women without destroying human life through abortion.

So far, 225 rallies are scheduled in 45 states.
What is #ProtestPP, exactly?

…a coalition of state and national pro-life groups organized in response to the horrifying revelations in summer 2015 that Planned Parenthood has been involved in the illicit trafficking of aborted babies’ body parts.

On August 22 and October 10, 2015, tens of thousands of Americans answered #ProtestPP’s call for a national days of protest at Planned Parenthood centers. In all, 654 individual protests were held at 374 Planned Parenthood facilities throughout the United States—including abortion clinics that had not seen pro-life witness in years.

In April 2016 #ProtestPP launched the first-ever annual nationwide Planned Parenthood protest, with plans to hold such a nationally coordinated event every April.

In 2017, #ProtestPP is focusing on the fight to strip Planned Parenthood of their federal funding and shift those taxpayer dollars to federally qualified health centers that offer a far wider range of services and do not perform abortions.
The movement is neither new nor is it miniscule, but it’s not something that will receive wide media coverage.


 
TRENDING
CBS News Introduces "Nation Tracker" to Study Public Reaction to Trump | RedState
Mickey White
 
With a Republican majority in D.C, the grassroots effort to defund Planned Parenthood is stronger than ever. The #ProtestPP movement isn’t just about defunding the abortion provider, as LifeNews reports:

The message of the February 11 national rally isn’t just to demand an end to all federal defunding of Planned Parenthood, which comprises roughly 40% of their annual $1 billion budget. We’re also calling for those funds to be redirected to Federal Qualified Health Centers that provide a far wide spectrum of services to women without killing children through abortion.

In reality, the Charlotte Lozier Institute has found that there are 13 times more FQHCs than Planned Parenthood centers, serving about 8 times more women, despite all Planned Parenthood’s claims that poor women relying on them. Funds could easily be diverted to FQHCs to avoid any disruption of services to current Planned Parenthood clients.
Though Cecile Richards would have you believe otherwise, defunding her organization won’t bring about the suffering of millions of women looking for healthcare. PP is the exception when it comes to providing actual care for women in America, not the rule. The majority of American women, of all economic backgrounds, go elsewhere besides PP. Diverting existing funds to clinics which vastly outnumber Planned Parenthood would promote the wholeness of all.

The media won’t do much in the way of mentioning today’s protests, but many are taking part. Check out rally happenings at Twitter on #ProtestPP, and find one of the many locations here.

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter
TAGS:#DEFUNDPPABORTIONMEDIAPRO-LIFEPROTESTS
  by Taboola Sponsored Links Promoted Stories
This Is What 2 Cups Of Diet Soda Per Day Will Do To Your Belly
BIO X4 Supplement
Angelina Jolie's New Go-To Travel Shoe Is Surprisingly Affordable
Vogue | Everlane
Teen Goes Missing In Aruba: But 10 Years Later, Police Uncover Truth
LifeDaily.com
Doctor Reveals What Just A Single Diet Soda Will Do To Your Body
BIOX4 Supplement
by TaboolaMore From RedState
Nancy Pelosi Snaps When Asked About Planned Parentood

RECENT STORIES

 
No. It is Not Okay to Call Donald Trump “Mentally Ill” as an Insult
Mickey White
 
 
Why is the State of Texas Collecting Millions in Labor Union Dues?
mattmackowiak
 
 
Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration
Susan Wright
 
COMMENTS
POSTING RULES  |  LOGIN TO COMMENT  |  REGISTER TODAY




TRENDING
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
No. It is Not Okay to Call Donald Trump "Mentally Ill" as an Insult
Justice Department Kills Obama's Pervs-In-the-Girls-Bathroom Rule
Why is the State of Texas Collecting Millions in Labor Union Dues?
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The "Idiot" In The White House

 
PUT UP OR SHUT UP: Trump Advisor Claims Voter Fraud; Has No Evidence (VIDEO)
Kimberly Ross
 
 
CBS News Introduces “Nation Tracker” to Study Public Reaction to Trump
Mickey White
 

 
Satanic Temple Valentine’s Day Fundraiser Hopes To Raise Funds For Abortion Lawsuits
Susan Wright
 
 
RedState’s Water Cooler 2/12/17 – Open Thread – Ex Parte Merryman
colonelflagg
 

 
Swedish Government Debases Itself To Suck Up To Iranian Mullahs
streiff
 
 
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
Jay Caruso
 

RELATED STORIES
 
No. It is Not Okay to Call Donald Trump “Mentally Ill” as an Insult
Mickey White
 
 
CBS News Introduces “Nation Tracker” to Study Public Reaction to Trump
Mickey White
 
TRENDING ON TOWNHALL MEDIA
 
Left-Fascism: Free Speech Restrictions on Campus
finance.townhall.com
 
 
How do other countries handle illegal immigration? | Human Events
humanevents.com
 
 
The Sean Spicer Show draws large audiences to Trump’s White House « Hot Air
hotair.com
 
 
News Archives - Bearing Arms
bearingarms.com
 
          
Home RS Gathering Advertise Newsletters Privacy Policy Terms of Use
 Copyright RedState.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you
`WE PERSIST: Defund Planned Parenthood Protests To Be Held In 218 Cities Today | RedState
