
»
DonaldTrump · Trump · resist · Republicans · Resistance · Democrats · Community · GOP · Senate · Immigration · ElizabethWarren · muslimban · Politics · JeffSessions · election · MitchMcConnell · 2018 · Racism · WhiteHouse · Elections · Media · Environment · Education · TeaParty · VladimirPutin · KellyanneConway · Progressives · Obamacare · Vote · Election2018
 
Sign up  Log in  Help  Join the list
NEWS
COMMUNITY
ACTION



POLLWATCHER Blog Stream Groups Following Profile
A New Travel Ban Bars Children From Entering The U.S.

By pollwatcher  
2017/02/11 · 12:13
83 Comments (83 New)
 151

 
 RSS
REBLOGGED BY
Kos Canucks and Friends
Recommended
TAGS
Ban
Canada
Recommended
Travel
Share this article
 
Do you want to know how far we’re down the rabbit hole?  Check this out.

The Windsor, Ont. public school board is cancelling all student field trips to the United States because the current American political climate is considered too “unsafe” and unpredictable to permit cross-border travel.

“Paramount for us is student safety … we really don’t know what will happen to our students at the border,” said Clara Howitt, a superintendent with the Greater Essex County District School Board.

…

Ottawa has begun monitoring the situation and recording instances where Canadians — particularly dual citizens — have been turned around.

“Where one person doesn’t go, nobody goes … we want to make sure nobody is excluded,” said public school board spokesman Scott Scantlebury

…

“If ever there was a point in which the world needed to learn about racism and prejudice and the unspeakable truths that need to be spoken, (now is the time),” Masse told the Star.

...

Howitt said the board contacted U.S. border authorities before making its decision and was advised that any students who were citizens of the seven listed countries — Iran, Iraq, Syria, Libya, Sudan, Yemen and Somalia — would be barred from crossing.
3 weeks in and our closest friend and neighbor is afraid to send some of their children to our country.  Can you blame them?

RESIST!

83 Comments (83 New)
Share this article
 151

 
83 COMMENTS
Comment Settings
( f ) Recommend ( r ) Reply
More hints...
( p ) Parent ( o ) Open/Close ( j ) Next Unread ( k ) Prev Unread
© Kos Media, LLC
Site content may be used for any purpose without explicit permission unless otherwise specified. “Kos” and “Daily Kos” are registered trademarks of Kos Media, LLC.

Privacy Policy
Daily Kos
Front Page
Elections
Labor
Radio
Comics
RSS
About
Masthead
History
Writers
Terms
Rules of the Road
DMCA Copyright Notice
Endorsements
Privacy
Merchandise
Shirts
Advertising
Advertising Overview
Stats for advertisers
Contact
Media Inquiries
General Inquiries
Jobs
`A New Travel Ban Bars Children From Entering The U.S.
