TypeError: null is not an object (evaluating 'select_element.setAttribute')

  http://michellemalkin.com/wp-content/themes/malkin/js/mm.js?ver=4.6.1:68
Left-leaning actors courageously slam liberal Hollywood’s pay disparity during Obama presidency
 	
By Doug Powers  •  January 12, 2017 08:40 PM
**Written by Doug Powers
As it turns out, the Obama years might have been worse for “equal pay” than anybody previously imagined — especially among the Hollywood Left, who are flipping out about the possibility that a Trump presidency could worsen a problem that, according to one of their own, already exists in the most liberal of business circles:
Marie Claire’s February issue cover star Natalie Portman has revealed to us that Ashton Kutcher was paid three times as much as her for 2011 rom-com No Strings Attached.
‘I knew and I went along with it because there’s this thing with “quotes” in Hollywood… His [quote] was three times higher than mine so they said he should get three times more. I wasn’t as pissed as I should have been. I mean, we get paid a lot, so it’s hard to complain, but the disparity is crazy.’
‘Compared to men, in most professions, women make 80 cents to the dollar,’ she continued. ‘In Hollywood, we are making 30 cents to the dollar.’
‘I don’t think women and men are more or less capable. We just have a clear issue with women not having opportunities. We need to be part of the solution, not perpetuating the problem.’
Kutcher offered Portman her fair share of the leading role pay emotional support:
Ashton Kutcher said he is “so proud” of Natalie Portman for speaking out on the Hollywood gender pay gap.
The actor, who starred alongside the Oscar-winning actress in their 2011 film “No Strings Attached,” was responding to Portman’s recent interview in Marie Claire UK.
In the interview, Portman revealed that Kutcher’s salary on the film was more than three times what she was paid.
[…]
“So proud of Natalie and all women who stand up for closing the gender pay gap!” he wrote, sharing a link to the article.
In other words, Left-leaning actors, who both had supported Hillary Clinton, have slammed lack of “equal pay” in an industry dominated by liberals during the lengthy presidency of Barack Obama, and Republicans will somehow still be at fault. I half expected Kutcher to jump out during all this and yell, “You just got PUNK’D!”
Update:
I almost forgot that Portman’s in this stupid celeb “I will survive” video in which Hollywood lefties bravely convince themselves to keep breathing after January 20th:

**Written by Doug Powers
Twitter @ThePowersThatBe

blog comments powered by Disqus
Posted in: Barack Obama,Hillary Clinton,Hollyweird
Printer Friendly


Necessary reminder for MSM: ‘Death to America’ chants in Iran started WAY before Trump became president
February 10, 2017 01:16 PM by Doug Powers

It’s nothing new
Now that Obama’s gone it’s safe for the MSM to notice Iran’s ‘more powerful’ than they’ve been in decades
February 6, 2017 08:16 PM by Doug Powers

Predictable
Fifty Shades of Grey Lady: NY Times Mag troubled by ‘uncomfortable love affair’ on Super Sunday (open thread)
February 5, 2017 09:45 AM by Doug Powers

Guess we know who they’re NOT rooting for
Ex-Prez who took nuns to court slams Trump on religious freedom
January 30, 2017 07:13 PM by Doug Powers

Perfect
Perfect: Richard Branson sends private jet for Obamas so they can discuss how everybody’s going to die from fossil fuel emissions
January 24, 2017 09:21 AM by Doug Powers

Mixed messages

Categories: Barack Obama, Enviro-nitwits, Feature Story


 

 
AboutContactArchivesColumnsPhotosCRTV
Powered by Sound Strategies Inc.
Design by The BlogStudio
© 2004-2017 – Jazz Mustache LLC ‒ all rights reserved


`Michelle Malkin | » Left-leaning actors courageously slam liberal Hollywood’s pay disparity during Obama presidency
