
»
DonaldTrump · Trump · resist · Republicans · Resistance · Democrats · Community · GOP · Senate · Immigration · ElizabethWarren · muslimban · Politics · JeffSessions · election · MitchMcConnell · 2018 · Racism · WhiteHouse · Elections · Media · Environment · Education · VladimirPutin · TeaParty · KellyanneConway · Progressives · Election2018 · Vote · Obamacare
 
Sign up  Log in  Help  Join the list
NEWS
COMMUNITY
ACTION



WORKINGWORDS Blog Stream Groups Following Profile
Resistance Isn't Just About Policy Preferences - It's Majority Rule

By workingwords  
2017/02/11 · 12:01
1 Comment (1 New)
 1
 1
 RSS
TAGS
MajorityRule
Plutocracy
Resistance
RiggedElections
Share this article
 
There are many reasons to resist what is taking place in the US today which is not a matter of being pro- or anti- on this or that policy.  There are much more fundamental matters such as majority rule.

The newly inaugurated US president lost the popular vote by 2.1%.  (And that does not take into account what the popular vote might have been if not for voter suppression.)  That’s not a small amount that you can ignore as a minor flaw.  What is even more disturbing is that the Electoral College didn't choose him by one vote or by 1% - its tally put him ahead by a margin of over 10%.  That's really distorted.  It's also the second time in five presidential elections that the candidate who lost the popular vote was inaugurated.

The existence and continuation of the Electoral College is often rationalized as being a mechanism to "veto" a misguided citizenry which chooses someone who would be a danger to the US.  But consider who the Electoral College selected in 2016:

- Loser of the popular vote by millions of votes

- No government experience

- Has had a number of business failures - at least one a huge disaster.  How many failures or disasters do we want to know a president caused - in his supposed area of strength - prior to taking office?

- Has a dangerous termperament

- Has significant conflicts of interst, which he refuses to genuinely correct

- Fact checkers have found him to make many serious falsehoods

- Appears to be very narcissistic.  (See this Scientific American item which estimates how Trump stands on a scale of attributes associated with psychopathy.  The article appeared long before the Electoral College choice.)

- Spoke disparagingly of US military leaders and intelligence services (although he has no background in either area)

- There were questions of Russian influence in the election on his behalf

Clinton had her shortcomings, but not on this scale on the kinds of matters that the Electoral College is alleged to exist to protect us.  The Electoral College has shown that it does the opposite of what might have been considered a justification for keeping it.  The need for its elimination has become well established.

And yet, how much do you hear from politicians or the medai saying something as simple as, "The Electoral College was the law in 2016, but we need to fix the problem so future elections are by majority rule."  This is the second time in 5 presidential elections that the Electoral College picked the loser of the popular vote, and in neither case did the Electoral College argue that the winner of the popular vote posed a threat to the US.

Today, confirmations for nominees are taking place in the Senate - the body Constitutionally designated for that task.  Unfortunately, that means confirmations are done by a body which is biased by having two Senators per state rather than a proportional representation of the population.  In current terms, that means rural states (those with small populations) have greater influence than their number of voters justifies.  It's also worth noting that the number of members of the Electoral College for each state is equal to its number of members of the House and Senate.  So, the Electoral College is not proportional to population either.

The elections for president, and members of the House and Senators are all impacted by voter suppression.  Polling stations have been eliminated in certain poor communities, reduced allocation of resources result in voters in some communities having to wait in line for 5 hours to vote, there have been selective voter roll purges, there are changes in rules to make it harder to register to vote and harder to be accepted as a voter at polling stations, etc.

Gerrymandering has significantly distorted the composition of the House of Representatives.

In the latter part of the Obama years, large numbers of Pres. Obama's nominees for various posts were never considered and those posts left vacant.  As a result, the new government created through these various abuses against majority rule will now try to fill all these posts with officials who will help them further erode majority rule.  Any Supreme Court Justices these anti-majority forces confirm could be acting to continue the anti-majority agenda for decades on the Court — with no way to vote him out

Trump has major potential business conflicts of interest.  A person with strong political beliefs can be tempted to overlook some acts of political over-reach if they believe it will result in advancing policies which benefit the country.  Business conflicts of interest aren't like that.  They’re used behind the scenes for selfish personal gain.  There is no excuse for Trump not using a blind trust.  What is even worse, there is no excuse for the fact there is no legal requirement that it be done.  The point is not an assumption that this or that politician *will* be corrupt.  The point is that history shows us that some politicians are corrupt, so precautions are desirable.  Suppose Trump was an honest politician, but the next president after him was going to be corrupt.  If Trump put his businesses into a blind trust, it would prevent the next president from saying, "Trump didn't use a blind trust and nothing went wrong, so why should I have to use a blind trust?"  So, maintaining protections from conflictions of interest is a practical precaution and helps maintain citizens' confidence in government.  "An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure."

Aside from the most immediate personal kind of conflict of interest, the new president's nominees / appointees have more general kinds of conflicts.  For a department which is supposed to be a third party acting independently in disputes between companies and employees, Trump chose a company boss.  For agencies which deal with scientific matters, he chose people who reject the scientific consensus.  

There are attacks on the press and claims that the president's "alternative facts" are at least as significant as real facts.  And there are orders forbidding government scientists and agencies to make statements consistent with the scientific consensus on important matters.

As a nation we have a very high incarceration rate.  By law, our states take away the right to vote from former prisoners (generally ex-felons, but some states do it more broadly.)  This means millions of US citizens who have already served their sentence are forbidden to vote.  This is another factor biasing US elections, especially considering the very disproportionate rates at which some groups in the population are arrested and imprisoned.  (Beyond the general question of states disenfranchising ex-prisoners, there’s also the question whether states should have the authority to restrict the vote in federal elections.)

Billions of dollars in unlimited political spending are influencing our elections.  It's not just that vast amounts of money are being spent buying air time and such, it's also the money spent on the learning and strategy of how to manipulate people with ads and other propaganda.  A tiny percentage of the population is getting highly disproportionate influence.  It wouldn't even be as bad if those billionaires had to spend their own money to do it.  But now that corporations can spend unlimited amounts, the billionaires don't have to take it all out of their own pockets.  A billionaire who holds a significant, but minority, part of a corporation's stock can get the corporation to spend money to help pro-billionaire candidates.  The corporation effectively takes money from all of the stockholders, so the billionaire doesn't have to pay all the money himself.  The corporation doesn't even have to ask the other stockholders whether this is OK with them.  So, if your retirement investments include stocks (directly or through mutual funds), billionaires are probably taking money away from your retirement by having corporations use that money to support pro-billionaire candidates.

The rich - through politicians they influence - have been increasing these anti-majority laws in our country in recent decades.  When determining whether or not current or future anti-majority laws should be rejected, the US Attorney General and the court system can act if they choose.  However, we're seeing more anti-majority figures filling those posts.  Not only are the current anti-majority laws unlikely to be successfully challanged, but we're likely to see a blizzard of new anti-majority laws in anticipation of the Attorney General and the courts accepting them.

In theory, these anti-maority mechanisms could be eliminated with Constitutional amendments.  However, to pass an amendment it's necessary to get a 2/3 vote in the House AND a 2/3 vote in the Senate AND the approval of the president AND the approval of 3/4 of the state legislatures.  Back in the 1970s, before many of the recent anti-majority moves, the Equal Rights Amendment for women was unable to reach those requirements.  Even assuming all of the above listed politicians reflected the wishes of average Americans rather than the rich, to meet all of those requirements would mean you needed the support of at least 70% of the population.  But since the elections are so rigged, you would probably need more like 80% of the population supporting the changes.  Taking into consideration that politicians don't reflect average Americans, it would be even harder.  Fixing these problems only by voting for candidates and writing letters to politicians is almost certain to fail.  You can work through the system for the next 20 years trying to promote these changes, but during the same 20 years additional forms of rigging the elections will be implemented by the politicians put into power by rigged elections.  You'll be trying to walk up a down escalator which moves faster than your legs do.

Our politicians and media will tell you the above political system is "the greatest democracy in the world."  If this is what "democracy" means, I shy away from using the term to describe what we want.  I use "majority rule" instead.

Our system is so biased in so many ways, we can't depend on correcting it by politely working through this anti-majority system.  That's not to say we should ignore the rigged elections, but we have to put a large part of our efforts into other avenues.  We need to make clear to politicians we know the system is rigged, and as a result, we're not limiting ourselves to working within the rigged system.

On the electoral front, we need a progressive rating system for politicians which evaluates *actions* not words.  We need to evaluate what they do when their votes will make the difference - not just whether they vote for good when they know evil will win anyway.  Either as individuals or groups we need to establish criteria for when a major party candidate has crossed the line — meaning we should vote for a third candidate.  We need at least one third party which is free of all billionaire influence.  When rigged elections make it certain a "lesser evil" major party candidate will lose, we might as well vote for a good third candidate.  We don't have to believe a third party is "the answer," you simply have to believe that losing lots of votes to a third party can pressure major party candidates to change their behavior.

365 days a year, whether or not it's an election year, we need an independent mass movement.  We need non-electoral tools - picket lines, demonstrations, boycotts, labor actions, tax strikes, educational efforts, non-participation in anti-majority government activities, etc.  We may soon need a new generation of draft dodgers.  We need to expose minority rule and publicize the issues politicians won't.  We should study how the people under other anti-majority regimes have fought for their rights.

1 Comment (1 New)
Share this article
 1
 1
 
  by Taboola Sponsored Links FROM THE WEB
Here's why transferring a credit card balance to a 21-month 0% APR is a good plan
NextAdvisor
Can Meal Preparation Kits Save You Money? Watch What CBS Found
Home Chef
35 Mistakes You Never Noticed In Major Motion Pictures
Two Red Dots
New Executive Order: Big Changes for Retirees
Money Morning
1 COMMENT
Comment Settings
( f ) Recommend ( r ) Reply
More hints...
( p ) Parent ( o ) Open/Close ( j ) Next Unread ( k ) Prev Unread
[new]  
workingwords Feb 11 · 12:01:58 PM
Tip Jar	
 0
© Kos Media, LLC
Site content may be used for any purpose without explicit permission unless otherwise specified. “Kos” and “Daily Kos” are registered trademarks of Kos Media, LLC.

Privacy Policy
Daily Kos
Front Page
Elections
Labor
Radio
Comics
RSS
About
Masthead
History
Writers
Terms
Rules of the Road
DMCA Copyright Notice
Endorsements
Privacy
Merchandise
Shirts
Advertising
Advertising Overview
Stats for advertisers
Contact
Media Inquiries
General Inquiries
Jobs
`Resistance Isn't Just About Policy Preferences - It's Majority Rule
