TypeError: null is not an object (evaluating 'a.appendChild')

  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:27 in k
  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:27 in n
  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:27 in toJSON
  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:28 in loadEmbed

LOGIN
REGISTER
RS GATHERING
DIARIES
 ×
 

RUMOR. Vladimir Putin May Send Edward Snowden Back To the United States SHARE ON FACEBOOK SHARE ON TWITTER

RUMOR. Vladimir Putin May Send Edward Snowden Back To The United States
Posted at 11:00 am on February 11, 2017 by streiff

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter

 
 
It seems that Edward Snowden may be about to find out that traitors have a relatively short shelf life:

U.S. intelligence has collected information that Russia is considering turning over Edward Snowden as a “gift” to President Donald Trump — who has called the NSA leaker a “spy” and a “traitor” who deserves to be executed.

That’s according to a senior U.S. official who has analyzed a series of highly sensitive intelligence reports detailing Russian deliberations and who says a Snowden handover is one of various ploys to “curry favor” with Trump. A second source in the intelligence community confirms the intelligence about the Russian conversations and notes it has been gathered since the inauguration.
The Russians have already wrung Snowden dry. His only useful purpose right now is to rub the US government’s nose in his duplicity by keeping him around and allowing his internet access. In the big chess game being played, Snowden is less a pawn than he is the rag used to wipe down the table the chess board is placed on.

The responses so far have been, well, interesting:



 
TRENDING
#FakeNews: The Media's Devotion to Left Wing Confirmation Bias | RedState
Joe Cunningham
 
No, Teddy, you were never a spy. You were a tool.

The prize for most surreal comment goes to, naturally, a former Obama official:

Former deputy national security adviser Juan Zarate urged the Trump administration to be cautious in accepting any Snowden offer from Russian President Vladimir Putin.

“For Russia, this would be a win-win. They’ve already extracted what they needed from Edward Snowden in terms of information and they’ve certainly used him to beat the United States over the head in terms of its surveillance and cyber activity,” Zarate said.

“It would signal warmer relations and some desire for greater cooperation with the new administration, but it would also no doubt stoke controversies and cases in the U.S. around the role of surveillance, the role of the U.S. intelligence community, and the future of privacy and civil liberties in an American context.

“All of that would perhaps be music to the ears of Putin.”
This is the kind of too-clever-by-half thinking that drove the Obama administration from one disaster to another. Accepting Snowden back brings no dangers and no obligations. As Snowden has already revealed to the world what he has stolen, there isn’t even the possibility of graymail. Snowden has been used until there is nothing left of value about him and now he’s about to be discarded in service of a larger objective. It is actually pretty simple.

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter
TAGS:DONALD TRUMPEDWARD SNOWDENRUSSIAVLADIMIR PUTIN
  by Taboola Sponsored Links Promoted Stories
10 Pictures That Prove Betty White Has Always Been a Babe
Cyber Breeze
What John Boy From “The Waltons” Looks Like Now is Crazy
Definition
The amazing VA benefits not enough vets are claiming
LendingTree Mortgage Quotes
The one shimmer oil you need to glow this summer
Bustle | Kopari Beauty
by TaboolaMore From RedState
Did Vladimir Putin Just Signal That An Invasion Of Ukraine Is Imminent?

RECENT STORIES

 
No. It is Not Okay to Call Donald Trump “Mentally Ill” as an Insult
Mickey White
 
 
Why is the State of Texas Collecting Millions in Labor Union Dues?
mattmackowiak
 
 
Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration
Susan Wright
 
COMMENTS
POSTING RULES  |  LOGIN TO COMMENT  |  REGISTER TODAY



TRENDING
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
No. It is Not Okay to Call Donald Trump "Mentally Ill" as an Insult
Justice Department Kills Obama's Pervs-In-the-Girls-Bathroom Rule
Why is the State of Texas Collecting Millions in Labor Union Dues?
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The "Idiot" In The White House

 
PUT UP OR SHUT UP: Trump Advisor Claims Voter Fraud; Has No Evidence (VIDEO)
Kimberly Ross
 
 
CBS News Introduces “Nation Tracker” to Study Public Reaction to Trump
Mickey White
 

 
Satanic Temple Valentine’s Day Fundraiser Hopes To Raise Funds For Abortion Lawsuits
Susan Wright
 
 
RedState’s Water Cooler 2/12/17 – Open Thread – Ex Parte Merryman
colonelflagg
 

 
Swedish Government Debases Itself To Suck Up To Iranian Mullahs
streiff
 
 
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
Jay Caruso
 

RELATED STORIES
 
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The “Idiot” In The White House
Susan Wright
 
 
Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration
Susan Wright
 
TRENDING ON TOWNHALL MEDIA
 
Left-Fascism: Free Speech Restrictions on Campus
finance.townhall.com
 
 
humanevents.com
 
 
Elizabeth Warren is a grandstanding phony « Hot Air Headlines
hotair.com
 
 
Reality TV Rape Suspect Will Hayden Looks Like Hell In Jail
bearingarms.com
 
          
Home RS Gathering Advertise Newsletters Privacy Policy Terms of Use
 Copyright RedState.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you
 `RUMOR. Vladimir Putin May Send Edward Snowden Back To the United States | RedState
