By using this site, you agree to the Privacy Policy and Terms of Service.


Election Results
Nation
World
Our Team
CNN.com
Trump still spent campaign money on personal properties post-election
By Theodore Schleifer, CNN

Updated 3:15 PM ET, Thu February 2, 2017


Chaffetz: Democrats want to stir the pot 02:34
Story highlights
Trump and the RNC spent roughly $400,000 on his properties between late November and late December
Trump enters the 2020 presidential cycle owing no campaign debt, and sits on $7.6 million cash on hand
(CNN)Donald Trump continued spending his campaign cash on personal properties even after Election Day, according to his latest campaign spending report.

Trump throughout the race disbursed funds to properties like Trump resorts and on services like his personal airline. Doing so is perfectly legal, provided the campaign pays the full rate, but the payments alarmed ethics experts who wanted to ensure Trump wasn't personally profiting off his presidential campaign.
Trump, who has already filed with the Federal Election Commission for reelection in 2020, shared with the FEC this week that he and the Republican National Committee spent about another $400,000 on Trump properties from late November to the end of December, according to a review of his latest filings.
That included rentals of Trump facilities like the Doral in Miami or catering services like those from "Trump Restaurants LLC."
Trump's campaign was also run out of another Trump property, Trump Tower in midtown Manhattan -- he paid rent for the office space.
Read More
News for you
James Robart: 5 things to know about judge who blocked travel ban
Eminem unleashes on Donald Trump: 'I'll make his whole brand go under'
Betsy DeVos clears another hurdle in early morning Senate vote
Treasury slaps sanctions on Iran after ballistic missile launch
Uber CEO drops out of Trump's business advisory council
Schwarzenegger responds to Trump 
 
Paid Content
 
Enter Your Name, Wait 12 Seconds, Brace Yourself
TruthFinder
 
Trumps Final Warning To Homeowners - Claim Your Federal $4,240 Rebate Before Feb 28th!
TheDollarDaily
 
The 2017 IKEA Catalog Is Filled With Genius Ideas
IKEA
 
Homeowners Should Claim Their $4264 This Month.
FetchRate
 
9 Things You Didn't Know About Cruising
Norwegian Cruise Line
 
Downsizing? Ditch These 12 Items
AARP
More from CNN
Trump threatens Mexico's biggest cash source
 
Sean Spicer won't say what the unemployment rate is
 
U.S. basketball players are stranded in Dubai
Trump adviser cites non-existent 'massacre' defending ban
Recommended by
Content by LendingTree
Rates now at 3.2% APR (15 Yr Fixed). Do you qualify?
Fastest way to pay off $10,000 in credit card debt
Can you save on your mortgage?
The amazing VA benefits not enough vets are claiming
People are stockpiling miles with this insane credit card
Paid Partner Content
Top 7 cards for excellent credit NextAdvisor
Save on hotels around the world with Booking.com Booking.com
Free 30-day workout video trial with Daily Burn Daily Burn
10 mind-blowing credit cards charging 0% interest until 2018 NextAdvisor
15 houseplants for improving indoor air quality Mother Nature Network
Sections
Election Results
Nation
World
Our Team
Follow us
CNN.com
© 2017 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. Terms of service | Privacy guidelines

`Donald Trump still spent money on campaign properties post-election - CNNPolitics.com
