
»
DonaldTrump · Trump · resist · Republicans · Resistance · Democrats · Community · GOP · Senate · Immigration · ElizabethWarren · muslimban · Politics · JeffSessions · election · MitchMcConnell · 2018 · Racism · WhiteHouse · Elections · Media · Environment · Education · VladimirPutin · TeaParty · KellyanneConway · Progressives · Election2018 · Vote · Obamacare
 
Sign up  Log in  Help  Join the list
NEWS
COMMUNITY
ACTION



ERYK Blog Stream Groups Following Profile
GOP official calls booing town hall attendees "children"

By Eryk  
2017/02/11 · 13:18
9 Comments (9 New)
 9
 0
 RSS
REBLOGGED BY
Recommended
TAGS
GOP

 The Hill:

A county GOP executive in Florida on Saturday called booing attendees at a town hall “children” after he made the claim that the Affordable Care Act requires seniors seeking medical treatment go before a “death panel.”

“Here’s the problems I have with the Affordable Care Act. Number one, there is a provision in there, that anyone over the age of 74 has to go before what is effectively a death panel,” Pasco County GOP secretary Bill Akins told participants at a town hall event for Rep. Gus Bilirakis (R-Fla.).

The crowd immediately began jeering Akins for the statement, which echoed a 2009 claim by former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin. PolitiFact named the "death panels" claim its "lie of the year" in 2009.

9 Comments (9 New)
Share this article
 9
 0
 
  by Taboola Sponsored Links FROM THE WEB
Here's why transferring a credit card balance to a 21-month 0% APR is a good plan
NextAdvisor
Seattle: This Meal Service is Cheaper Than Your Local Store
Home Chef
New Executive Order: Big Changes for Retirees
Money Morning
American Giant just created the first real leggings designed to replace your Jeans
WhoWhatWear | American Giant
9 COMMENTS
Comment Settings
( f ) Recommend ( r ) Reply
More hints...
( p ) Parent ( o ) Open/Close ( j ) Next Unread ( k ) Prev Unread
[new]  
Eryk Feb 11 · 01:18:25 PM
Tip Jar	
 8
[new]  
sunbro Feb 11 · 01:30:16 PM
Oh, you are calling other people “children”, GOP bonehead, Bill Akens?

Yes, hating on one’s neighbor, in a selfish manner, and not giving a shit about what happens to anyone but yourself, is so befitting an “adult”.

< /sarcasm >

 2
[new]  
mediasucks Feb 11 · 01:33:22 PM
Median age of audience looks about 72, "children" probably not the most appropriate pejorative term for this crowd.

 8
[new]  
Dog Day Afternoon Feb 11 · 01:36:55 PM
Bullshit like this guy and Chaffetz--who can’t believe people disagree with them--is what happens when the GOP wins majority rule without majority support.  Gerrymandering, voters suppression, electoral college victory, two Senators for every unequally sized state...

 10
[new]  
Clio2 Feb 11 · 01:43:03 PM
Infantilization is the technique of the week.

 3
[new]  
gfre Feb 11 · 02:01:53 PM
But are they PAID children? 'Cause that might violate child labor laws.

Oh, wait...

 1
[new]  
AdamSelene Feb 11 · 02:28:53 PM
Well … coming from a Dirty Diaper Baby do do head.

I can’t vouch for the diapers … but I do know that “seniors” don’t  buy insurance through PACA exchanges …  Medicare and for profit private ‘wrap around’ or ‘advantage.’

Now … the truth is the PACA diverted a certain amount of money from the Medicare to the Medicaid and SS Disability accounts … (it’s only a reduction of compensation to providers, not a reducing in benefits” -—)

And  that’s reassuring because … ???

And “death panels’ … well, the DO exist … but they’re not State, Federal or even Insurance Company entities.   They’re the “ethics committees” of the Hospitals themselves who oversee transplant programs,  experimental treatments, — sometimes with disappointing determinations for Patients. 

Last thing:   "Obamacare Repeal” is so not something Pres45.dum dreamed  up all on his own.    The whole arcade of Republican primary candidates were promising   “Repeal” … along with Tax Cuts, …. School Charters, a Heritage Foundation pick for SCOTUS ..Business and Environmental Regulation ‘reduction’  — and a backhanded swipe at Planned Parenthood.  

No surprises here. We’re going to have these things not because #45 is such a great Boss/Negotiator/Leader … it’s because the Congressional Majority of will have it so — and all this stuff was in the Republican Party Platform since at least 1996  (Though it is entirely possible they’ll allow The Monster From the Id some helpless victims to torment … with little or nothing to do with the Establishment Agenda — but it’ll help keep the Great Distraction happy and biddable.

 

 1
[new]  
SheLawyer Feb 11 · 02:34:42 PM
That video is great, and I'm so proud of the crowd for setting him straight. What an idiot.

 1
[new]  
BackToBasics Feb 11 · 02:55:45 PM
Absolutely beautiful! Freaking liar.

 1
© Kos Media, LLC
Site content may be used for any purpose without explicit permission unless otherwise specified. “Kos” and “Daily Kos” are registered trademarks of Kos Media, LLC.

Privacy Policy
Daily Kos
Front Page
Elections
Labor
Radio
Comics
RSS
About
Masthead
History
Writers
Terms
Rules of the Road
DMCA Copyright Notice
Endorsements
Privacy
Merchandise
Shirts
Advertising
Advertising Overview
Stats for advertisers
Contact
Media Inquiries
General Inquiries
Jobs
`GOP official calls booing town hall attendees "children"
