
MENU

42
WATCH LIVE


Tracking potential winter storm
Download our app
Latest forecast
Tracking closings/delays
14-year-old girl from Fairfax County located in Oklahoma, police say
by ABC7
Friday, March 3rd 2017


VIEW PHOTO GALLERY
4 photos
AA
WASHINGTON (ABC7) — A 14-year-old girl from Fairfax County who was reported missing has been found in Tulsa, Oklahoma, police said Saturday night.


Jamia Holland disappeared on Feb. 28, according to police.

Jamia Antoinee Holland is black and is 5-foot-2 and weighs 230 pounds. She has brown hair, brown eyes and was wearing sky blue pants, a black bomber jacket and black sandals. Police say she may be wearing glasses.

Fairfax County Police along with the assistance of the FBI Washington Field Office and the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children are asking for information on Holland's location.

Anyone with information is asked to call the Fairfax County Police at 703-691-2233, The FBI Washington Field Office at 202-278-2000 or visti www.tips.fbi.gov, or the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children at 1-800-843-5678.

 
MORE TO EXPLORE
 Circa
Dave Chappelle urged his neighbors to stand up to big gov't 'in this Trump era'
 Circa
Baltimore's police commissioner talks race, enforcement and Trump's law and order stance
 
D.C. Police issue arrest warrant for juvenile sex trafficker
 
Kim Cattrall to play US president in Swedish TV series
SPONSORED CONTENT
 
CBS News Reports Meal Service is Cheaper Than Grocery Store
HOME CHEF
 
Rare Photos from the Old Wild West That Will Leave You Shocked!
DEPOSTS
 
Teen Goes Missing In Aruba. But 10 Years Later, Police Uncover Truth
DIRECT EXPOSE
 
Queen Latifah Shares Her Experiences as a Caregiver for Her Mom
AARP
Recommended by
NEWS IN PICTURES


High school seniors killed in crash, 3rd student injured

Man who raped 2, robbed 5 women near Metro stations sentenced to life in prison

Police: 1 woman is dead after a serious car crash with her 2 children in Waldorf

More street style from Paris Fashion Week
LOADING

×
TRENDING

1	
High school seniors killed in crash, 3rd student injured

2	
Police: Employee stabbed to death outside Potomac Mills Burlington Coat Factory

3	
VIDEO: 'Colorblind' boys try to trick their teacher with a haircut

4	
Veteran music executive and former pop star Tommy Page dies

5	
Police: Woman sexually assaulted while 'blindfolded and bound' inside NW D.C. home

6	
Man who raped 2, robbed 5 women near Metro stations sentenced to life in prison

7	
WATCH: Pregnant giraffe's birth streaming live

8	
Police: 49-year-old man hit, killed by suspected drunk driver while in Md. crosswalk

9	
East Nashville man shares what it's like to die - and come back to life

10	
2 toddlers killed, mother airlifted in accident that shut down West Virginia highway

..`14-year-old girl from Fairfax County missing; last seen earlier this week, police say | WJLA
