
CULTURE
Graphics Show Fox News Takes Two VERY Different Approaches To The Clinton/Pence Email Scandals
by Penn Collins
 Share 32074    March 3, 2017
ShareClick me! 
ShareClick me!
It’s not quite a revelation to suggest – or simply state – that Fox News tends to favor conservative and Republican pursuits in its reporting. However, now that Mike Pence is being accused of maintaining a private email account to conduct public business during his time as governor of Indiana, much like Hilary Clinton one was as Secretary of State, we’re dealing with an apples-to-apples study of how the network is covering the similar issues. 

To the surprise of few, the coverage isn’t similar at all. One could parse through hundreds of hours of coverage to create an aggregate stance the network took on the Clinton email scandal, but with the Pence malfeasance just now emerging, that would leave us with little coverage to aggregate for his treatment. 

So, rather, let’s use two simple and telling screenshot of Fox News chyrons (graphics – courtesy of Vox and Twitter) used to handle each subject’s scandal. 

Let’s start with the chyron used for Hilary Clinton’s email coverage: 


Twitter
Ok. With no further commentary, let’s now look at the chyron used for their early coverage of Mike Pence’s personal email scandal:


Twitter
Not only is there no “Corrupt Pence?” pseudo-question, but the outright assertion that this is a non-story. Oh, and covering the issue is an act nothing short of “hysterical,” as though the mainstream media was clawing at their own skin trying to rid themselves of imaginary bugs. 

The cases will undoubtedly prove to be different and less comparable as investigation provides more information, but Fox News’ tone at the outset of a scandal they were so quick to latch onto for an entire campaign speaks volumes in very few words. 

It’s probably time to put “Fair and Balanced” to bed, guys. 


RECENTLY ON GOOD
New BBC Parody Videos Are The Internet We Need Right Now
Evidence Of A Widespread ‘Manterruption’ Epidemic
Press Secretary Sean Spicer’s Upside Down Flag Pin Seems Oddly Appropriate
What The ACLU Is Doing Right Now With Their Massive, $24 Million In Donations
The “unsexy” nonprofit launches a shiny new platform 
The NFL May Have Violated Drug Laws To Push Painkillers On Players
How Samantha Bee Show’s ‘Nazi Hair’ Joke Backfired In The Best Way Possible
CULTURE
Here’s What Happens When A Man And A Woman Switch Names At Work
Who gets more respect: “Nicole” or “Marty”? by Andre Grant
FOOD
8 Fermented Beverages From Around The World You Must Try
“That’s around the time I was told it was fermented horse milk” by Maxwell Williams
HEALTH
Doctors Tell This 5-Year-Old They Found Him A New Heart, And His Reaction Is Priceless
He’s undergone two surgeries and literally waited his whole life to hear this news by Penn Collins
MENU 
RECENT
FEATURES
INFOGRAPHICS
PROJECTS
ISSUES
SUBSCRIBE
NEWSLETTER
About
Advertise
Contact
Shop
FAQ
Newsletter
Subscribe
Terms
Privacy
Careers
   
©2017 GOOD Worldwide Inc
`Graphics Show Fox News Takes Two VERY Different Approaches To The Clinton/Pence Email Scandals | GOOD
