Sign in / Sign up
HOMECLIMATEPOLITICSCONFLICTS OF INTERESTHEALTH CAREIMMIGRATIONFEATURESVIDEORESIST

Aaron Rupar
Journalist, ThinkProgress. Twitter: @atrupar. Email: arupar@americanprogress.org
Dec 13, 2016
Kanye visited Trump Tower. Watch cable news take the bait.
To cover Trump effectively, ignore shiny objects.


United States President-elect Donald J. Trump and Musician Kanye West pose for photographers in the lobby of Trump Tower in Manhattan, New York, U.S., on Tuesday, December 13, 2016. CREDIT: John Taggart / Pool via CNP / MediaPunch/IPX

On December 15, Donald Trump was supposed to hold a news conference addressing how he plans to deal his business conflicts. Left unresolved, these conflicts will cause him to violate the Constitution on his first day in office.
But late Monday night, Trump, citing “busy times,” announced that the news conference will be postponed — conveniently, until after the Electoral College convenes on December 19.

Hours later, Trump announced that his choice for secretary of state is ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson. Tillerson was awarded the Order of Friendship by Russian President Vladimir Putin in 2013, and his nomination comes days after news broke that the CIA believes Russian cyberattacks during the presidential election were aimed at tipping the balance for Trump.
All told, Trump faced a tough news cycle on Tuesday. So what did he do? Create a circus to distract people.
It worked.
First, Kanye West went to Trump Tower and met with Trump — a meeting that reportedly took place at Trump’s behest. News of the summit dominated cable news. Here’s just a sampling over a two-hour period this morning.

Trump’s business conflicts and selection of Exxon’s CEO as his top diplomat quickly became blips on the internet radar in comparison to interest in his meeting with Yeezus.

CREDIT: Google trends
E! News reports that the Kanye meeting was instigated by Trump, who’s interested in getting West involved in an “entrepreneurial leadership role” and making him an “ambassador of sorts.”
Shortly after Kanye departed, the carnival-like atmosphere at Trump Tower continued with the arrival of former NFL stars Ray Lewis and Jim Brown, who met with Trump and then talked to reporters afterward.

The tactic is one frequently deployed by Trump.
One of his first major decisions as president-elect was to appoint Steve Bannon, executive chairman Breitbart News, a site that caters to white nationalists, as his “chief strategist and senior counselor.”
But Trump kept people distracted by creating a reality show-style atmosphere around his vetting of potential cabinet picks, particularly Mitt Romney.
CNN and Vanity Fair spent time covering gossip that Trump was “irritated” at campaign manager Kellyanne Conway over remarks she made criticizing Mitt Romney, a rumored candidate for Secretary of State.
Despite breathless coverage of Romney’s dinner meeting with Trump, Romney never got a cabinet position and rumors of a Trump-Conway beef are a distant memory.
During a Fox News interview last month, Trump supporter Newt Gingrich explained why it’s in Trump’s interest to keep the media and public distracted.
“Candidly, the news media is going to chase the rabbit,” he said. “So it’s better off for him to give them a rabbit than for them to go find their own rabbit. He’s had them fixated on Mitt Romney now for five or six days. I think from his perspective, that’s terrific. It gives everyone something to talk about.”
On Tuesday, the discussion should have been laser focused on Trump’s conflicts and the controversial appointment of Tillerson. But the media was chasing the rabbit — just as Trump intended.

PoliticsDonald TrumpConflicts Of InterestTrump TransitionVideo
36
5
Follow

Aaron Rupar
Journalist, ThinkProgress. Twitter: @atrupar. Email: arupar@americanprogress.org
Follow

ThinkProgress
Moving news forward.
More on Video from ThinkProgress
WATCH: 20 lies the Trump administration told this week

Victoria Fleischer
28

More on Conflicts Of Interest from ThinkProgress
Report: Trump has done absolutely nothing to address his conflicts of interest

Aaron Rupar
37

More on Conflicts Of Interest from ThinkProgress
White House petition demanding Trump disclose his taxes crosses 100,000 signature mark

Aaron Rupar
27

Responses
Show all responses

Never miss a story from ThinkProgress
GET UPDATES`Kanye visited Trump Tower. Watch cable news take the bait.
