ReferenceError: Can't find variable: twttr

  http://townhall.com/resources/js/sc.js:18
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in j
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in fireWith
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in ready
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in I
×
 


Townhall Columnists  Susan Stamper Brown
Has This Good Girl Gone Bad?
Susan Stamper Brown |Posted: Feb 12, 2017 12:01 AM  Share (187)   Tweet


  

Trending
 
Bruce Bialosky
The Death of Comedy?
 
Michael Brown
Left Wing Intolerance and Right Wing Hypocrisy
 
Derek Hunter
Baby Daddy

Apparently, fighting for the soul of America is an unacceptable occupation for believers. I’m also hearing that it is exceptionally inappropriate for former good girls like me, a widowed pastor’s wife, who is supposedly nose-diving toward Hades because she speaks out against the darkness of these days using her writing.

Of course, those who believe that kind of nonsense are ridiculously deceived. Jesus’ command to love our neighbors means many things including getting involved when we see corrupting moral influences affecting families, marriages, and children. When we speak out, we help shape and sometimes lead public policy.

America is suffocating under the weight of former President Obama’s eight-year fundamental transformation of the country. Evangelicals, in particular, have been hit hard. There is a reason why most evangelicals voted for President Trump, beginning with the Little Sisters of the Poor and ending with Supreme Court appointments and a thousand other issues sandwiched in between.

My critics’ time would be better spent getting a grasp on what’s happened to America rather than misjudging the good guys as bad guys simply because they call out lies, refuse to compromise with evil, and occasionally participate in political policy shouting matches.

In a recent email to me, someone wrote: “...the God I choose to worship is a God of love and has enough room in his heart and at his table to love those on both the right and left side of the political aisles.” Well, yes, he does. But the same Jesus who dined at tables with sinners overturned tables in the temple and drove sinners out with a whip.


CARTOONS | JERRY HOLBERT
VIEW CARTOON 
We barter in cheap grace when we choose to see God’s love and ignore the reality of his wrath.

Love might dine with wolves, but love won’t allow wolves to dine with sheep.

And by golly, love might even build a wall to protect those sheep! A man named Nehemiah was a pragmatic leader who taught people to pray and trust God but also instructed them to build a wall for protection and arm themselves for battle. He said, “Our God will fight for us,” but that was not an invitation for people to lay down their weapons, but rather, a reminder that God would be by their side in battle, were they attacked.

Love sometimes uses name-calling to make a point. Jesus said, “Beware of the false prophets, who come to you in sheep’s clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves.” He called them “ravenous wolves” not naughty puppy-dogs. On another occasion, he called people “vipers.” It’s not a stretch to think he might have used terms like “brainwashed snowflakes” or “foul feminists” or “nasty women” were it applicable at the time.

Which brings us to America in 2017. Whether we acknowledge it or not, there is a war being waged on the soul of this nation by leftists circling around the sheep like wolves. Those of us who see it for what it is understand it is no longer a time to be silent. King Solomon wrote: “There is a time for everything, and a season for every activity under the heavens,” including “a time to be silent and a time to speak, a time to love and a time to hate, a time for war and a time for peace.”

Sometimes love means fighting with all your might for what is right. We protect what God loves when we speak against things he hates.

War is messy and the people who care enough to fight get hit. Those calling warriors out for calling out the warmongering wolves need to get a grip. History is filled with stories about those who paid the price for swimming against the tide to keep government accountable. Former good girls like me who refuse to compromise with evil will get bruised and broken. And we are rarely popular. But, that doesn’t mean we aren’t doing what’s right or dangerous or difficult to protect the unaware sheep, for such a time as this.

  Share this on Facebook (187)
  Tweet

  by Taboola Sponsored Links Promoted Stories
New Executive Order: Big Changes for Retirees
Money Morning
20 Rare Historical Photos That Are Shocking
CelebFeed
10 Pictures That Prove Betty White Has Always Been a Babe
Cyber Breeze
Man Who Predicted Trump Win Makes New Prediction
MoneyWise411
by TaboolaMore From TownHall
Thomas Sowell - A Truly Great Phony

Say What?! Donald Trump Would Have Won The Popular Vote If It Weren't For Gary Johnson
Matt Vespa|  
Oh, the Irony: Liberals Threaten to Homeschool Kids After DeVos Confirmed as Education Secretary
Leah Barkoukis|  
As The Left Wallows In 'Trump Is Hitler' Hysteria, IJ Review Asked Someone Who Lived Through Nazi Germany If There Are Similarities
Matt Vespa|  
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
Matt Vespa|  
ACLU Is Seeing A Trump-era Surge In Members and Donations

AP News|  



Trending on Townhall Media
Left-Fascism: Free Speech Restrictions on Campus
TOWNHALL FINANCE
George Soros: Top 10 Reasons He Is Dangerous | Human Events
HUMAN EVENTS
Slam-Fire Shotgun!
BEARING ARMS
A good friend of Trump's just kneecapped Reince Priebus to the WaPost and on CNN
TWITCHY
 
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
TOWNHALL

Justice Department Kills Obama's Pervs-In-the-Girls-Bathroom Rule | RedState
REDSTATE
Video: SNL turns Kellyanne Conway into a crazed, sex-obsessed stalker - Hot Air
HOTAIR
					
Columnists Political Cartoons Tipsheet  Election Results Radio News Video Slideshows Tags Finance Townhall Radio
About Townhall Advertise Privacy Policy Terms of Use Radio Stations Sitemap Jobs  Contact Us Newsletters Townhall Mobile iPhone/Android Apps
  
Townhall.com is the leading source for conservative news and political commentary and analysis.
Copyright © Townhall.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you


`Has This Good Girl Gone Bad? - Susan Stamper Brown
