
»
DonaldTrump · Trump · resist · Resistance · Republicans · Democrats · Community · GOP · Senate · Immigration · ElizabethWarren · muslimban · Politics · JeffSessions · election · MitchMcConnell · 2018 · Racism · WhiteHouse · Elections · Media · Environment · Education · VladimirPutin · TeaParty · KellyanneConway · Progressives · Election2018 · Vote · Obamacare
 
Sign up  Log in  Help  Join the list
NEWS
COMMUNITY
ACTION



BUSTER40004 Blog Stream Groups Following Profile
More Unintended Consequences

By Buster40004  
2017/02/11 · 12:03
2 Comments (2 New)
 13

 
 RSS
REBLOGGED BY
Kossack Air Force
TAGS
Aviation
Trump
Share this article
 
Andy Pasztor reported February 9, 2017 in The Wall Street Journal:  that in the wake of Mr. Trump’s executive order putting all new and pending regulations on hold for 60 days, the Federal Aviation Administration’s normally low-profile, routine safety directives temporarily were held up by the freeze. The FAA has resumed issuing routine rules calling for safety fixes to aircraft, following a 19-day pause prompted by President Donald Trump’s government-wide regulatory freeze.

The first mandatory safety orders, called airworthiness directives, were published in the Federal Register at the start of this week and five more appeared for public inspection Thursday on the publication’s website. In January, before Mr. Trump’s inauguration, some two dozen such rules were released by the FAA.

The White House order allowed for exemptions due to urgent concerns about health, safety or national security, though it took time for the Trump team to determine that FAA airworthiness directives fell into one of those categories, according to people familiar with the process.

The urgent safety recommendation is based upon preliminary findings in the ongoing investigation of the July 29, 2016, in-flight breakup of a Piper PA-31T medical transport flight in California. Investigators found evidence of thermal damage near the airplane’s main electrical bus circuit breaker panel. The FFA report is here and the report is also available at Kathryns Report an aviation web site.

These ADs include wiring problems on Piper PA-31T light twin airplanes where the under-panel wiring can chafe on fuel and hydraulic lines, resulting in inflight fires, something you do not want to experience. Yet, it took some time for trump's team to determine that aviation safety may be impaired even though the above aircraft broke up in flight, killing all om board.

2 Comments (2 New)
Share this article
 13

 
  by Taboola Sponsored Links FROM THE WEB
Here's why transferring a credit card balance to a 21-month 0% APR is a good plan
NextAdvisor
Can Meal Preparation Kits Save You Money? Watch What CBS Found
Home Chef
35 Mistakes You Never Noticed In Major Motion Pictures
Two Red Dots
New Executive Order: Big Changes for Retirees
Money Morning
2 COMMENTS
Comment Settings
( f ) Recommend ( r ) Reply
More hints...
( p ) Parent ( o ) Open/Close ( j ) Next Unread ( k ) Prev Unread
[new]  
Buster40004 Feb 11 · 12:03:36 PM
Tip Jar	
 11
[new]  
SARBill Feb 11 · 01:12:58 PM
oh yes,….   its all just words on a paper.   These regulations are stifling business.     blah, blah, blah

Seen it, lived it — many regs come by blood.  But then is long forgotten why it was put in place, until removed, and tic-toc, tic-toc to the next blood incident, 60 minutes investigation, and Congressional feigned horror.

 6
© Kos Media, LLC
Site content may be used for any purpose without explicit permission unless otherwise specified. “Kos” and “Daily Kos” are registered trademarks of Kos Media, LLC.

Privacy Policy
Daily Kos
Front Page
Elections
Labor
Radio
Comics
RSS
About
Masthead
History
Writers
Terms
Rules of the Road
DMCA Copyright Notice
Endorsements
Privacy
Merchandise
Shirts
Advertising
Advertising Overview
Stats for advertisers
Contact
Media Inquiries
General Inquiries
Jobs
`More Unintended Consequences
