TypeError: undefined is not a constructor (evaluating 'a.elements.find(function(a){return"main"===a.type})')

  http://cdn4.wibbitz.com/rawstory/embed.js:2 in d
  http://cdn4.wibbitz.com/rawstory/embed.js:2 in c
  http://global.proper.io/rawstory.min.js:1
 
WATCH: Economists shoot down White House’s attempt to take credit for latest job report
SARAH K. BURRIS
03 FEB 2017 AT 16:08 ET                   

Economists Austin Goolsbee and Prof. Peter Morici (Photo: Screen capture)
DON'T MISS STORIES. FOLLOW RAW STORY!

President Donald Trump entered office Jan. 20 and his work for the month consisted of just 10 days of work. Still, his White House is claiming credit for the jobs report for the month of January.

In his press conference Friday, Trump press secretary Sean Spicer announced that the 227,000 jobs gained in January comes from a confidence in Trump’s presidency. The numbers are on track with the last several months of job growth in President Barack Obama’s administration

Speaking to CNN Friday, former chairman of the Council of Economic Advisors Austin Goolsbee explained that this month marks the longest string of private sector job growth in the history of the U.S.

“I think what you just saw was we had the starting quarterback in the last seven years of recovery, took him out with 30 seconds left of the Super Bowl and now the new guy is saying I won the game,” Goolsbee explained. “The unemployment rate is — the survey for the unemployment rate, the reference week that the jobs numbers came from was before Donald Trump was in office, so they’re for sure trying to take credit for something that happened before they got there.”

Fellow panelist Prof. Peter Morici from the University of Maryland agreed, saying that if the jobs report had been lousy, Spicer would have blamed Obama and claimed they were there to help.

Report Advertisement
Spicer also noted in his press conference that the unemployment rate was at 4.8 percent. Just last week a reporter asked him what the White House believed the unemployment rate to be since they didn’t agree that it was 4.8 percent as rated by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Spicer refused to answer the question, claiming that to the president it isn’t about a number but about “the faces of Americans.”

Watch the full discussion below:


Report typos and corrections to corrections@rawstory.com

NEXT ON RAW STORY >
‘If only West Wing were still on, he could learn how to be president’: Colbert mocks Trump’s TV obsession
By commenting, you agree to our terms of service and to abide by our commenting policy.
READ COMMENTS - JOIN THE DISCUSSION
SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER
Get the best of Raw Story, delivered daily
Email Address
  
NEW STORIES
Researcher says synthetic weed is not at all like marijuana
 Defense Secretary Mattis: Iran the ‘biggest state sponsor of terrorism’
 Surge in Ukraine violence could end peace deal, lead to ‘humanitarian disaster’
Immunotherapy: Training the body to fight cancer
 ‘If only West Wing were still on, he could learn how to be president’: Colbert mocks Trump’s TV obsession



 
Ex-Cop: "This Device Should Be Restricted To Cops"

Surgeons Are Now Calling This A "Death Food"

20 Cars To Avoid At All Costs In 2017

Cop: “Craziest Traffic Stop I’ve Ever Seen”
TRUMP NEWS
Defense Secretary Mattis: Iran the ‘biggest state sponsor of terrorism’
‘If only West Wing were still on, he could learn how to be president’: Colbert mocks Trump’s TV obsession
Watch: Maher guest Tomi Lahren struggles to defend Trump’s hypocrisy and ‘bullsh*t tornado’ of promises
‘South Park’ gives up on mocking Trump ‘because satire has become reality’
Justice Department will not file immediate stay against Seattle immigration ruling
US Customs give airlines green light to board all visa-holders after Seattle ruling

NEW VIDEOS
 ‘If only West Wing were still on, he could learn how to be president’: Colbert mocks Trump’s TV obsession
 Watch: Maher guest Tomi Lahren struggles to defend Trump’s hypocrisy and ‘bullsh*t tornado’ of promises
 ‘South Park’ gives up on mocking Trump ‘because satire has become reality’
 WATCH: Doctors successfully pull ‘large’ live cockroach from woman’s skull
 ‘F*cking crazy’: Rick Wilson slams Tomi Lahren for claim whites are discriminated as much as blacks
SEE ALL RAW STORIES
SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER
Get the best of Raw Story, delivered daily
Email Address  
`WATCH: Economists shoot down White House’s attempt to take credit for latest job report
