
KIRO Seattle
LIVE
	

SIGN IN REGISTER  
HOME
LIVESTREAM
Newscast
Live Events
MercerMess
Doppler Radar
WEATHER
StormTracker Doppler Radar Livestream
5-Day Forecast
Hour by Hour Forecast
Ski Report
School Closings
NEWS
Local News
Jesse Jones
KIRO 7 Investigates
National & World News
Crime News
Seen On KIRO 7
Seattle Anti-Freeze
KIRO 7 APPS
JESSE JONES
SPORTS
Mariners
Sounders FC
Seahawks
College Sports
Huskies
Cougars
High School Football
Seattle Storm
Seattle Reign FC
TRAFFIC
Traffic Cameras
MercerMess.com
Flow Map
Accident Alerts
Ferry Schedules
Mountain Pass Reports
ABOUT US
KIRO 7 News Team
KIRO 7 TV Schedule
Jobs with KIRO 7
Summer Internship Program
Contact Us
Advertise With Us
KIRO 7 Cares
Cox Conserves Heroes
Submit a news tip
VIDEO
Past Newscasts
MORE
Gold Buying Tips
7 Things to Do this Weekend
Shop Seattle
Housing
Profiles
 
Veterans write heartfelt message over Starbucks hiring 10,000 refugees
Updated: Feb 2, 2017 - 1:55 PM


0
  
Starbucks’ armed forces network shared a heartfelt message after push back to the coffee giant’s announcement that it will hire 10,000 refugees in the wake of President Donald Trump’s travel ban

Howard Schultz, the coffee retailer's chairman and CEO, said in a letter to employees Sunday that the hiring would apply to stores worldwide and the effort would start in the United States where the focus would be on hiring immigrants "who have served with U.S. troops as interpreters and support personnel."  

Related Headlines
 
Starbucks to hire 10,000 refugees in wake of Trump travel ban
  
Starbucks bans 37-year-old man for giving 'creepy' note to teen barista
  
Woman denied change at a Starbucks, trashes store
The promise resulted in reaction from both sides, with some calling for a boycott in support.

Starbucks Armed Forces Network, an internal veteran group with more than 14 chapters across the country. They provide an additional layer of support for veterans, spouses and any Starbucks partner (employee) wanting to show support for those who have served the country.

In a message published to Starbucks website on Thursday, the group wrote it wanted to set the record straight amid support and criticism. Here are some parts of that message:

 In November 2013, Howard and former Secretary of Defense Bob Gates announced Starbucks commitment to hire 10,000 veterans and military spouses over the next five years.
 Less than four years into the commitment, Starbucks has hired over 8,800 veterans and spouses and counting.
 Without question we will reach the 10,000 goal early, and we will keep going. None of this would have been possible without our boss’s very personal commitment. Howard didn’t just authorize our veteran initiative, he led it.
 And so you can imagine our reaction when we read criticism of our company and of our CEO suggesting that instead of a commitment to refugees, we should instead hire 10,000 veterans.
 We respect honest debate and the freedom of expression. Many of us served to protect that very right. Some of our brothers and sisters died protecting it. But to those who would suggest Starbucks is not committed to hiring veterans, we are here to say: check your facts, Starbucks is already there.
You can read the full message here.

© 2017 Cox Media Group.
0
  
Sponsored Links FROM THE WEB
Pay Off Your House At A Furious Pace If You Owe Less Than $625,500
QuickenLoans
The amazing VA benefits not enough homeowners are claiming
Morning Finance | LendingTree Quotes
List Your Home on Booking.com and Earn Extra Cash
Booking.com
Well-Kept Secret: Product Content Can Drive Your Sales Growth
Salsify
  by Taboola 
Loading...
Loading...
Loading...
Loading...

 
Veterans write heartfelt message over Starbucks hiring 10,000 refugees
New details in murder case raise questions about dating app dangers
Legislators to consider bill for assault weapons licenses
Areas of freezing rain, snow possible Friday morning
FBI impersonator robs Seattle business owner
News
Local News
National/World
News Video
Traffic
KIRO7 Weather
Weather
Storm Tracker HD
Advertisers & Sponsors
Cars at Autotrader
Local Services at Kudzu
About Us
About KIRO 7
What's on KIRO 7
KIRO 7 FCC EEO Public File Report
KIRO 7 Public File
© 2017 Cox Media Group.
By using this website, you accept the terms of our Visitor Agreement and Privacy Policy, and understand your options regarding Ad Choices.
This station is part of Cox Media Group Television.
Learn about careers at Cox Media Group.
`Veterans write heartfelt message over Starbucks hiring 10,000 refugees | KIRO-TV
