TypeError: null is not an object (evaluating 'a.appendChild')

  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:27 in k
  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:27 in n
  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:27 in toJSON
  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:28 in loadEmbed

LOGIN
REGISTER
RS GATHERING
DIARIES
 ×
 

Nikki Haley Pours Cold Water On Palestinian Authority SHARE ON FACEBOOK SHARE ON TWITTER

Nikki Haley Pours Cold Water On Palestinian Authority
Posted at 2:00 pm on February 11, 2017 by streiff

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter

 
 
Even though the United States does not recognize the Palestinian Authority as a state, the United Nations persists in treating it as such. Despite its status as a “non-member observer,” the Secretary General of the UN selected a former Palestinian Authority “prime minister,” Salam Fayyad, to actually lead a UN diplomatic mission to Libya. There is, of course, a certain elegance for letting a crypto-terrorist from one Third World Islamic sh**-hole failed state lead a diplomatic mission to another hird World Islamic sh**-hole failed state that is up to its eyeballs in terrorists, but, even so, there are enough Third World Islamic sh**-hole failed states that are members of the UN that they could easily find a person from an actual state.

Like so much that is done by the UN, its purpose was largely to stick an finger in the eye of Israel.

With a new administration in office, though, decisions like these may become a thing of the past:

The United States on Friday blocked the appointment of the former Palestinian prime minister to lead the U.N. political mission in Libya, saying it was acting to support its ally Israel.
…
“For too long the U.N. has been unfairly biased in favor of the Palestinian Authority to the detriment of our allies in Israel,” Haley said.
…
“This is the beginning of a new era at the U.N., an era where the U.S. stands firmly behind Israel against any and all attempts to harm the Jewish State,” Israel’s U.N. Ambassador Danny Danon said of the U.S. decision to block Fayyad’s appointment. “The new administration proved once again that it stands firmly alongside the state of Israel in the international arena and in the U.N. in particular.”

The new U.S. ambassador made clear that “going forward, the United States will act, not just talk, in support of our allies.”
99% of the reason that the Palestinian refuse to negotiate in good faith is because they have no real incentive to do so. They are coddled by the the developed world, they get an enormous influx of Western money to fill the Swiss bank accounts of their leaders, and they keep a perpetual enemy upon which to blame their problems. Once they agree to boundaries and get the statehood that they have been offered in the past, then the Palestinian leaders will have to actually lead and the pathetic degraded people in the Palestinian Authority’s area of rule will actually have to get jobs and stop stabbing and blowing up random Jews. So far no one among the Palestinians seems all that interested in a future that doesn’t involve violence.


 
TRENDING
CIA ATTACKS. Top Flynn Aide Fired From National Security Council | RedState
streiff
 
Share On Facebook Share On Twitter
TAGS:NIKKI HALEYPALESTINIAN AUTHORITYUNITED NATIONS
  by Taboola Sponsored Links Promoted Stories
15 Deleted Movie Scenes That Were Vital To The Plot
Detonate
The one shimmer oil you need to look glowy all summer long
Bustle | Kopari Beauty
Discover Why Everyone is Applying for Metal
Luxury Card
New Executive Order: Big Changes for Retirees
Money Morning
by TaboolaMore From RedState
Ann Coulter Can't Stop Herself... Nastily Insults Nikki Haley

RECENT STORIES

 
No. It is Not Okay to Call Donald Trump “Mentally Ill” as an Insult
Mickey White
 
 
Why is the State of Texas Collecting Millions in Labor Union Dues?
mattmackowiak
 
 
Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration
Susan Wright
 
COMMENTS
POSTING RULES  |  LOGIN TO COMMENT  |  REGISTER TODAY



TRENDING
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
No. It is Not Okay to Call Donald Trump "Mentally Ill" as an Insult
Justice Department Kills Obama's Pervs-In-the-Girls-Bathroom Rule
Why is the State of Texas Collecting Millions in Labor Union Dues?
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The "Idiot" In The White House

 
PUT UP OR SHUT UP: Trump Advisor Claims Voter Fraud; Has No Evidence (VIDEO)
Kimberly Ross
 
 
CBS News Introduces “Nation Tracker” to Study Public Reaction to Trump
Mickey White
 

 
Satanic Temple Valentine’s Day Fundraiser Hopes To Raise Funds For Abortion Lawsuits
Susan Wright
 
 
RedState’s Water Cooler 2/12/17 – Open Thread – Ex Parte Merryman
colonelflagg
 

 
Swedish Government Debases Itself To Suck Up To Iranian Mullahs
streiff
 
 
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
Jay Caruso
 

RELATED STORIES
 
Nikki Haley Pours Cold Water On Palestinian Authority
streiff
 
 
Nikki Haley Puts Russia on Notice for “Occupation and Military Invasion” of Ukraine
Mickey White
 
TRENDING ON TOWNHALL MEDIA
 
Sears may sell land, cut jobs to save $1B; shares soar
finance.townhall.com
 
 
Your Rights End Where Mine Begin | Human Events
humanevents.com
 
 
Elizabeth Warren is a grandstanding phony « Hot Air Headlines
hotair.com
 
 
St. Louis Woman Killed One Robber, Sends Other Fleeing For His Life
bearingarms.com
 
          
Home RS Gathering Advertise Newsletters Privacy Policy Terms of Use
 Copyright RedState.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you
`Nikki Haley Pours Cold Water On Palestinian Authority | RedState
