Sign in / Sign up
HOMECLIMATEPOLITICSCONFLICTS OF INTERESTHEALTH CAREIMMIGRATIONFEATURESVIDEORESIST

Josh Israel
Senior investigative reporter for ThinkProgress Contact me: jisrael@thinkprogress.org
Dec 15, 2016
Trump smears magazine editor who published a critical review of Trump Grill
Vanity Fair is the latest to feel the wrath of man who believes the First Amendment is too robust.


Donald Trump got into the holiday spirit on Tuesday, but was back to smearing critics on Thursday. CREDIT: AP Photo/Evan Vucci

In the 10th Federalist Paper, James Madison observed that “Liberty is to faction what air is to fire, an aliment without which it instantly expires. But it could not be less folly to abolish liberty, which is essential to political life, because it nourishes faction, than it would be to wish the annihilation of air, which is essential to animal life, because it imparts to fire its destructive agency.” But Madison did not have a Twitter account, while Donald Trump does.
On Thursday morning, Trump once again took to Twitter to attack a business and an individual that had had the nerve to say something critical about the Trump empire. A day after Vanity Fair published a negative review of Trump Grill, the steakhouse at Trump Tower in New York City, Trump mocked the magazine for having a low circulation and personally attacked the publication’s editor by name as a “no talent.”

Despite his promises to “bring people together,” and to “be president for all Americans,” this is just the latest example of Trump using the bully pulpit to bully critics.
Among them:
After NBC Nightly News aired a report on Sunday about his growing rift with the intelligence community and other challenges, Trump attacked the network and CNN:

Following United Steelworkers Local 1999 President Chuck Jones’ truthful criticisms of Trump’s much-touted deal with Carrier, Trump blamed the labor leader for the loss of manufacturing jobs. Soon after the tweets, Jones began to receive threats to his safety.

Not long after Boeing’s CEO suggested that Trump’s promises to restrict international trade could pose problems for the company, Trump slammed the company’s government contract and sent its stock prices temporarily tumbling.

Trump blasted Alec Baldwin and Saturday Night Live for satirizing him, calling the show “unwatchable,” “totally biased,” “not funny,” and “sad.”

Trump has also taken aim at the “failing New York Times” and the “overrated” Broadway musical Hamilton due to other perceived slights. He has previously suggested that the First Amendment’s free speech guarantees provide “too much protection.” Still, Trump has indicated a willingness to tweet less — if only people would stop criticizing him.

Trump postponed a promised press conference, scheduled to happen Thursday (after holding none since July), until after the Electoral College meets. His excuse: “Busy times!” interfering with his ability to address his myriad business conflicts of interests. Still, the president-elect apparently has plenty of time to smear his critics.

Donald TrumpPoliticsFirst AmendmentConflicts Of Interest
53
32
Follow

Josh Israel
Senior investigative reporter for ThinkProgress Contact me: jisrael@thinkprogress.org
Follow

ThinkProgress
Moving news forward.
More on Conflicts Of Interest from ThinkProgress
President Trump’s conflicts of interest were on display as he introduced his SCOTUS pick

Aaron Rupar
19

More from ThinkProgress
Americans are taking an active role in their democracy, and their representatives can’t handle it

Laurel Raymond
121

More on Conflicts Of Interest from ThinkProgress
New reports confirm Trump’s plan to disentangle from his business is a farce

Kiley Kroh
63

More recommendationsView
Responses
Show all responses

Never miss a story from ThinkProgress
GET UPDATES`Trump smears magazine editor who published a critical review of Trump Grill
