TypeError: null is not an object (evaluating 'select_element.setAttribute')

  http://michellemalkin.com/wp-content/themes/malkin/js/mm.js?ver=4.6.1:68
Dem Regrets? Dianne Feinstein has one (paging Harry Reid!)
 	
By Doug Powers  •  February 9, 2017 04:09 PM
**Written by Doug Powers
Remember this gem from then Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid in 2013?

Now that Donald Trump’s nominees are in the process of being confirmed one after the other with Democrats pretty much unable to do more than make noise and maybe try to sell some books and position for 2020, Sen. Dianne Feinstein is among those with regrets:
As the Senate works towards confirming President Donald Trump’s cabinet nominees, the impact of a controversial rules change in 2013 has been evident. Of the few cabinet nominees that have passed through the Senate, three were confirmed with under 60 votes.
The Senate confirmed Rex Tillerson as Secretary of State with 56 votes; Jeff Sessions as Attorney General with 52 votes; and Betsy DeVos, who barely reached a majority of 51 votes without Vice President Mike Pence’s deciding vote to confirm her as Secretary of Education.
[…]
Prior to Sessions’ confirmation vote on Wednesday, Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) told Independent Journal Review that Democrats “have done everything we can under the rules” to oppose the nominee. When IJR asked whether nuking the filibuster was a good idea in hindsight, Feinstein replied:
“As we look back, it may well have been better to not have changed the rules.”
It’s hard to feel sorry for Dems over their self-inflicted party paralysis, isn’t it?
**Written by Doug Powers
Twitter @ThePowersThatBe

blog comments powered by Disqus
Posted in: 2016 Campaign,Democrats,Dianne Feinstein,Donald Trump,Harry Reid
Printer Friendly


Ninth Circuit keeps Trump’s travel ban blocked; Hillary rubs it in from undisclosed location nowhere near the White House
February 9, 2017 09:00 PM by Doug Powers

Weighing in from the sidelines
Liberal Event Horizon? Nancy Pelosi said something so wrong it stunned even Maxine Waters
February 7, 2017 08:49 PM by Doug Powers

Old habits die hard
Hillary Clinton to release new book & test paid speaker market’s appetite for influence peddlers with no influence
February 1, 2017 10:29 PM by Doug Powers

How to Win Friends and Fail to Influence Swing States
SCOTUS-geddon: Chris Matthews’ leg thrill vaporized by Trump’s apocalyptic ‘shock & awe’ campaign
January 31, 2017 09:21 PM by Doug Powers

The thrill is long gone
Magic Mic: Audio problem leaves totally relatable Nancy Pelosi speechless and in search of ‘real people’
January 31, 2017 10:29 AM by Doug Powers

Symbolic

Categories: 2016 Campaign, Donald Trump, Feature Story, Nancy Pelosi


 

 
AboutContactArchivesColumnsPhotosCRTV
Powered by Sound Strategies Inc.
Design by The BlogStudio
© 2004-2017 – Jazz Mustache LLC ‒ all rights reserved


`Michelle Malkin | » Dem Regrets? Dianne Feinstein has one (paging Harry Reid!)
