
LOGIN
REGISTER
RS GATHERING
DIARIES
 ×
 

The Media Avoiding The Facts Of “Trump Immigration Raids” SHARE ON FACEBOOK SHARE ON TWITTER

The Media Avoiding The Facts Of “Trump Immigration Raids”
Posted at 9:00 am on February 12, 2017 by Brad Slager

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter

 
 
 



 

The press seem intent on mischaracterizing immigration raids in order to demonize President Trump.

Undoubtedly you have probably heard, Donald Trump is monstrously sending ICE agents on massive sweeps. Across the country families are reputedly being torn apart as deportations are taking place of illegal residents.


 
TRENDING
Muslim Groups Are Refusing Federal Funds Aimed at Combatting Violent Extremism | RedState
Jim Jamitis
 
As Jay Caruso detailed, these arrest sweeps are hardly new, or even novel occurrences. President Obama conducted raids of this very nature and somehow the media complex managed to oversee the supposed Constitution-shredding they accuse of the current office holder.

Social media activists are wailing about the efforts, fueled by media misrepresentation. Across the press landscape the raids that have taken place this week bear a similar description: innocent families wanting a better life are ripped to pieces.

These raids, according to The Washington Post:

Netted some immigrants without criminal records, an apparent departure from similar enforcement waves during the Obama administration. Last month, Trump substantially broadened the scope of who the Department of Homeland Security can target to include those with minor offenses or no convictions at all.
CNN has been no less hyperbolic:

Fear is running high among immigrant communities since President Donald Trump’s inauguration — and after the recent publicized deportation of an undocumented Arizona mother of two after a routine visit with immigration officials, reports have been spreading of Immigration and Customs Enforcement stepping up its actions in the southwestern US.
Senator Diane Feinstein, pretended this was a novel concept:

President Trump’s policy change betrays our values. Tearing families apart isn’t what this country stands for.

What is stark in all hand-wringing is a lack of statistical analysis. The media opponents of fake news seem unwilling to ferret out the facts, despite availability. It took a report from a local Los Angeles station to glean what is actually taking place.

These raids, actually scheduled before President Trump’s inauguration, are targeting criminal aliens, illegal re-entrants, and immigration fugitives. In the region of Southern California recent raids involved 160 arrests — of those 150 were described as having criminal histories. (Five more had been previously deported.)

The crimes of those collected were hardly trivial. “Many of those arrested had prior felony convictions for serious or violent offenses, including child sex crimes and assault.”

To further shred the narrative that innocent mothers and their children are the ones being rounded up: 95% of those arrested were males. Immigration officials also alluded to the misinformation campaign.

“The rash of these recent reports about ICE checkpoints and random sweeps, it’s all false and that’s definitely dangerous and irresponsible,” said ICE spokesperson David Marin.
The real question is why the media has the need to highlight the hysterical aspects and throw blame for details that are wildly incorrect. Also, why they overlook some highly verifiable details.

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter
TAGS:DONALD TRUMPIMMIGRATIONMEDIA
  by Taboola Sponsored Links Promoted Stories
15 Deleted Movie Scenes That Were Vital To The Plot
Detonate
Susan Dey Was Stunning in the 70s.. But What She Looks Like Today is Incredible
Definition
The one shimmer oil you need to look glowy all summer long
Bustle | Kopari Beauty
We Tried Bombas Socks. Here’s What Happened:
Business Insider | Bombas Socks
by TaboolaMore From RedState
Laura Ingraham Continues to Say Unsubstantiated Crap

RECENT STORIES

 
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The “Idiot” In The White House
Susan Wright
 
 
Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration
Susan Wright
 
 
PUT UP OR SHUT UP: Trump Advisor Claims Voter Fraud; Has No Evidence (VIDEO)
Kimberly Ross
 
COMMENTS
POSTING RULES  |  LOGIN TO COMMENT  |  REGISTER TODAY



TRENDING
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
Justice Department Kills Obama's Pervs-In-the-Girls-Bathroom Rule
No. It is Not Okay to Call Donald Trump "Mentally Ill" as an Insult
Why is the State of Texas Collecting Millions in Labor Union Dues?
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The "Idiot" In The White House

 
Politico Rallies the Futile Resistance Declaring Trump Weak and Ineffectual
Dan Spencer
 
 
Satanic Temple Valentine’s Day Fundraiser Hopes To Raise Funds For Abortion Lawsuits
Susan Wright
 

 
RedState’s Water Cooler 2/12/17 – Open Thread – Ex Parte Merryman
colonelflagg
 
 
Swedish Government Debases Itself To Suck Up To Iranian Mullahs
streiff
 

 
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
Jay Caruso
 
 
Department of Education Proves We Need Reform in One Misspelled Tweet
Mickey White
 

RELATED STORIES
 
No. It is Not Okay to Call Donald Trump “Mentally Ill” as an Insult
Mickey White
 
 
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The “Idiot” In The White House
Susan Wright
 
TRENDING ON TOWNHALL MEDIA
 
Left-Fascism: Free Speech Restrictions on Campus
finance.townhall.com
 
 
PUT UP OR SHUT UP: Trump Advisor Claims Voter Fraud; Has No Evidence (VIDEO) | RedState
redstate.com
 
 
As The Left Wallows In 'Trump Is Hitler' Hysteria, IJ Review Asked Someone Who Lived Through Nazi Germany If There Are Similarities
townhall.com
 
 
Supreme Court strikes down Stolen Valor Act
humanevents.com
 
          
Home RS Gathering Advertise Newsletters Privacy Policy Terms of Use
 Copyright RedState.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you
`The Media Avoiding The Facts Of “Trump Immigration Raids” | RedState
