
»
DonaldTrump · Trump · resist · Republicans · Resistance · Democrats · Community · GOP · Senate · Immigration · ElizabethWarren · muslimban · Politics · JeffSessions · election · MitchMcConnell · 2018 · Racism · WhiteHouse · Elections · Media · Environment · Education · VladimirPutin · TeaParty · KellyanneConway · Progressives · Election2018 · Vote · Obamacare
 
Sign up  Log in  Help  Join the list
NEWS
COMMUNITY
ACTION



ANEGAHBAN Blog Stream Groups Following Profile
East TN Indivisible group humiliates Rep. John Duncan (Weasel-Knoxville) in the classiest fashion

By anegahban  
2017/02/11 · 13:04
16 Comments (16 New)
 130
 18
 
 RSS
REBLOGGED BY
Recommended
Three Star Kossacks
TAGS
indivisible
Recommended
The indivisible movement is marching strong even here in deep red East TN. A few weeks ago, Republican House member John Duncan who’s been in that seat since 1988 (and his father had it before then) refused to host a town hall citing kooks and sore losers as his rationale for being a weasel.

In response, the folks at Indivisible didn’t sit on their hands and let him get away with this. They organized a peaceful protest at Duncan’s office which they dubbed Kookfest. The local media was all over it and it got coverage on all the local news outlets.

Duncan did have a good reason for not attending as his brother in law had just passed after a battle with ALS. So how did the good folks at Indivisible respond? They used their platform to raise money for ALS on his behalf and again received great local press for their classy efforts. I know it was genuine but honestly, this is an amazing troll of a longtime right wing kook.

Here is the link to the local news broadcast of this event:

www.wbir.com/...

I know this is not as large a showing as some of the other Indivisible events but just know that even here in deep red country, the resistance is picking up steam. In solidarity!

16 Comments (16 New)
Share this article
 130
 18
 
  by Taboola Sponsored Links FROM THE WEB
New Executive Order: Big Changes for Retirees
Money Morning
Can Meal Preparation Kits Save You Money? Watch What CBS Found
Home Chef
The Sweatshirt Designed by an Apple Engineer That's Bringing Manufacturing Back to America
Business Insider | American Giant
4 Things I Discovered After Wearing MeUndies For A Month
AskMen | MeUndies
16 COMMENTS
Comment Settings
( f ) Recommend ( r ) Reply
More hints...
( p ) Parent ( o ) Open/Close ( j ) Next Unread ( k ) Prev Unread
[new]  
anegahban Feb 11 · 01:05:00 PM
Tip Jar	
 117
[new]  
BackToBasics Feb 11 · 01:18:47 PM
That's a good sized group! So awesome and classy to take up a collection like that. Thanks for sharing this!

 38
[new]  
anegahban Feb 11 · 01:36:07 PM
I thought it was a nice way to use their platform for positive change and a positive story in the press. It’s tough for anyone Dem leaning to get any favorable media in this area so I’m really proud of these folks!

 41
[new]  
teresahill  anegahban Feb 11 · 01:53:34 PM
Wow. Love it when can find a way to respond that’s classy and pokes fun at how ridiculous Republicans are being. But to do both of those and raise money for charity — wow.

Stand up and take a bow. I’m applauding you.

 28
[new]  
Diana in NoVa Feb 11 · 01:50:02 PM
This is excellent news!

Thanks for sharing. :)

 19
[new]  
Radiowalla Feb 11 · 02:03:34 PM
This was a remarkable video.  Everyone should watch it.  

There are lessons here.  Certainly this method is not for every situation or even every district, but I think these activists showed great style and class.  

 23
[new]  
IamHere Feb 11 · 02:27:54 PM
This is beautiful!  The people who were interviewed were excellent!  They represented in a very positive manner that should get people to accept that they have a legitimate grievance with Duncan.

Thank you for letting us all know that these good people are standing up and speaking up! 

 16
[new]  
SheLawyer Feb 11 · 02:29:17 PM
That video is great. The protesters who spoke on camera were so classy and well-spoken. Made him look so mean for calling them kooks. This is how it's done!

 17
[new]  
neptune8 Feb 11 · 02:40:44 PM
It’s a great illustration that is about caring and love, not fear….

 11
[new]  
maxzj05 Feb 11 · 02:41:51 PM
Great showing, classy demonstration, and very good press. Well done! 

 8
[new]  
Salish Feb 11 · 03:01:32 PM
Okay, weasels may be slinky and bitey, but at least they are part of natural ecosystems.  This guy and his ilk are not. 

 4
[new]  
twocrows1023 Feb 11 · 03:01:49 PM
Red state or Blue state, that was still a respectable turnout.  And that’s not even to mention the respectful way they treated Duncan.  May he return the sentiment.

 9
[new]  
RandomNonviolence Feb 11 · 03:15:51 PM
100 people is a fantastic turnout for a conservative area. And the Knoxville News-Sentinel article is great: 'Indivisible' group marches on Rep. Duncan's office Keep up the good work!

 7
[new]  
Thinking Fella Feb 11 · 03:25:54 PM
Thanks for this report, and even more—thanks for being a proud Dem in a red State! If you happen to know any of the folks who showed up, please tell them some guy in rural Colorado is applauding them admiringly & hopes they keep up the fight.

We are also quite active here in our little town, mostly via Indivisible right now, hounding our R Congressional Rep & 1 of our Senators who is R. And just like you, when 50 or 100 folks show up for anything in a small town, it’s news, so it gets covered. Enough signs & you get a pic in the paper! Rural representatives have to respond to that stuff, whereas in a big city, 100 folks is just how many are waiting for the traffic light to change at an intersection & city folk need many 1000’s to be noticed. I’m a believer that out here in rural areas, across the country, if every town has a protest at every opportunity, it will have an impact. Most new votes to be found—in the places we need for Congress, Senate & electoral college for president not to mention local races, exist out here in the sticks. I learned today that my county had an 84% turnout last election (and it was a blue wave in my county, but we couldn’t carry our Congress dist), and that was because my county rallied every available Dem to do something in addition to voting. I have every expectation I will be calling my precinct many times well before the next election, and I expect they will respond again. 

Thanks again for your active participation in our democracy!

 2
[new]  
Dogs are fuzzy Feb 11 · 03:29:05 PM
“They go low, we go high”

 1
[new]  
Otteray Scribe Feb 11 · 03:30:40 PM
I wonder how Duncan will respond. Will he thank them for the fundraiser, or claim it is some kind of cheap trick to make political hay off his loss?  I only hope he is gracious and not snarly.

Reblogged to Three Star Kossacks.

 0
© Kos Media, LLC
Site content may be used for any purpose without explicit permission unless otherwise specified. “Kos” and “Daily Kos” are registered trademarks of Kos Media, LLC.

Privacy Policy
Daily Kos
Front Page
Elections
Labor
Radio
Comics
RSS
About
Masthead
History
Writers
Terms
Rules of the Road
DMCA Copyright Notice
Endorsements
Privacy
Merchandise
Shirts
Advertising
Advertising Overview
Stats for advertisers
Contact
Media Inquiries
General Inquiries
Jobs
`East TN Indivisible group humiliates Rep. John Duncan (Weasel-Knoxville) in the classiest fashion
