

SUBSCRIBE
Play Video
WHITE HOUSE
White House: There’s No Evidence After-School Programs Help Kids’ Performance
Julia Zorthian
Mar 16, 2017
The White House claimed on Thursday that there's no evidence students benefit from after school programs, which President Donald Trump's proposed budget would stop funding.
The budget eliminates funding for the 21st Century Community Learning Centers, which supports before and after school programs for 1.6 million children, the Washington Post reports. Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney claimed at a press conference that there's no evidence those programs benefit student performance.
"They're supposed to be educational programs, right?" Mulvaney said to reporters. "Guess what? There's no demonstrable evidence they're actually doing that. There's no demonstrable evidence they're actually helping results, they're helping kids do better in school.
He continued, "The way we justified it was: these programs are going to help these kids do better in school and get better jobs. And we can't prove that that's happening."

Studies have shown that after school programs do help students' performance in terms of metrics such as grades, test scores, attendance, participation ratings and more. Research from the Global Family Research Project (formerly the Harvard Family Research Project) backs that up. So does research from the Afterschool Alliance, a nonpartisan organization that supports programs and resources for students.
Heather Weiss, the founder of the former Harvard Family Research Project, told the Washington Post that the White House assertion did not match research.
“There is a lot of evidence,” she told the Post. “Engaging kids in high-quality after-school and programs, many of which are supported by 21st Century Community Learning Centers grants, results in kids doing better in school. They’re more likely to graduate and to excel in the labor market.”
 
SPONSORED STORIES
 
Airline Miles Trick That Airlines…
CreditDonkey
 
65-Year Old Man Makes Startling…
upliftlife.today
 
Gigi Hadid's Go-To Shoe Is…
WhoWhatWear
 
53 cat pictures that will make…
Viral Kittens
 
Things You Never Knew You Were…
RightBrainNews
 
This Meal Service is 65%…
Home Chef
 
Why Everyone is Ordering…
The Journiest
 
We Tried Blue Apron: Here's…
Blue Apron
by
NEXT UP

TECH
Uber Suspends Arizona Self-Driving Tests after Crash
Uber will suspend operation of its test fleet of self-driving vehicles in Arizona as it investigates a Friday crash there that ended with an autonomous vehicle rolled onto one side. No one was
MORE COVERAGE

MEDIA
InfoWars’ Alex Jones Apologized for His ‘Pizzagate’ Coverage. He Blamed Other Media for It
Radio host and conspiracy theorist Alex Jones issued an apology on Friday for his site InfoWars‘ coverage of the “Pizzagate” hoax, in which he attributed errors in his commentaries

BREXIT
Tens of Thousands in London Protest Britain’s EU Departure
Tens of thousands protested Saturday under sunny skies in London against plans for Britain to withdraw from the European Union. The Unite for Europe march, which saw many people carrying bright blue

CONGRESSIONAL REPUBLICANS
With Healthcare Bill Dead, U.S. Republicans Turn to Taxes
After failing to repeal Obamacare, Republicans in the U.S. Congress quickly pivoted on Friday to President Donald Trump’s next priority: overhauling the federal tax code, but their plan has
MOST POPULAR STORIES
1InfoWars’ Alex Jones Apologized for His ‘Pizzagate’ Coverage. He Blamed Other Media for It

2With Healthcare Bill Dead, U.S. Republicans Turn to Taxes

3Amazon to Collect Sales Tax in Most States Starting April 1st

4‘They’ve Completely Taken Over.’ Ivanka Trump’s Washington Neighbors Aren’t Happy

5That Airbnb Host in Trump Tower Got Fined

SPONSORED FINANCIAL CONTENT

Both sides say communication is key as Tillerson visits China
South China Morning Post

Tiny Device to be in 50 Billion Products by 2020...
Banyan Hill

Learn How Chinese Cyber Celebrities Are Monetizing Their Followers
Alizila

Before Applying For A Credit Card, Check If You Pre-Qualify
Citi
MORE FROM FORTUNE.COM

LEADERSHIP
Arkansas Governor Signs Bill Reinstating Voter ID law
Arkansas’ governor signed a measure Friday requiring voters to show photo identification before casting a ballot, reinstating a voter ID law that was struck down by the state’s highest

TECH
Amazon to Collect Sales Tax in Most States Starting April 1st
CNBC reports that after more than two decades of bad blood and legal wrangling between states and the online giant, Amazon will collect sales tax in all states that have such a levy. Collection

FORTUNE INSIDERS
How Work Sprints Can Improve Your Effectiveness
The Leadership Insiders network is an online community where the most thoughtful and influential people in business contribute answers to timely questions about careers and leadership. Today’s answer

MPW
‘They’ve Completely Taken Over.’ Ivanka Trump’s Washington Neighbors Aren’t Happy
Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner‘s new neighbors in Washington, D.C. are not happy with the couple’s presence. After an initially welcoming reception, residents of D.C.’s

RETAIL
More Americans Are Drinking Coffee Every Day This Year
More Americans are drinking a daily cup of coffee in 2017, a reversal of four years of declines, as gourmet brews gain in popularity, according to an industry group’s report released

TECH
That Airbnb Host in Trump Tower Got Fined
Lena Yelagina, owner of an apartment in Trump Tower that was listed for rental on Airbnb until early this month, has received a summons from the city of New York seeking a $1,000 fine for

AUTOS
California Is Daring President Trump to Stop It From Fighting Climate Change
California’s government agency responsible for maintaining healthy air quality voted on Friday to adopt stricter emissions standards for automobiles, essentially daring President Donald Trump

FINANCE
Why JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon Is Among the World’s Greatest Leaders
The staff of Fortune and a panel of experts recently assembled our annual list of the World’s Greatest Leaders. Here’s a profile of one of them. There was a JPMorgan Chase jpm before Jamie Dimon,

CAREERS
Whole Foods, REI, and Aflac CEOs Respond: What’s the Single Most Important Thing For Company Culture?
What makes one company a vibrant, exciting, inclusive place to build a career and another a staid, repressive, and exclusionary work environment that tears through employees like disposable napkins?

LEADERSHIP
The Week When Trump’s Wiretap Accusation Died
President Donald Trump’s accusation that his predecessor ordered snooping of his communications has fallen apart, slapped down by the FBI chief and again by the Republican leading the
Customer ServiceSite MapPrivacy PolicyAdvertisingAd ChoicesTerms of UseYour California Privacy RightsCareers
© 2017 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
All products and services featured are based solely on editorial selection. FORTUNE may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. 

Quotes delayed at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Interactive Data. ETF and Mutual Fund data provided by Morningstar, Inc. Dow Jones Terms & Conditions: http://www.djindexes.com/mdsidx/html/tandc/indexestandcs.html. S&P Index data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions. Powered and implemented by Interactive Data Managed Solutions


SUBSCRIBE
SEARCH
Home
Fortune 500
All Rankings
Tech
Leadership
Venture
Fortune Insiders
Most Powerful Women
Automotive
Careers
Energy & Environment
Executive Travel
Finance
Health
TIME Health
International
Looking Forward
Retail
Markets
Magazine
Newsletters
Videos
Fortune Conferences
Follow FORTUNE
SHARE
Share on Facebook
Post on Twitter
Email this story
Share on Reddit
Share on Pinterest
Share on LinkedIn

`White House Claims No Evidence After-School Programs Help Performance | Fortune.com
