×
 


Townhall Tipsheet  Matt Vespa
WASHINGTON D.C.
She Persisted: Betsy DeVos Calm And Collected After Protesters Blocked Her From Entering DC School
Matt Vespa |Posted: Feb 10, 2017 4:15 PM  Share (849)   Tweet


As Cortney wrote earlier today, protesters angry that she was confirmed as education secretary blocked her from entering Jefferson Middle School Academy in Washington D.C. She eventually was able to get inside the building to meet with the administrators of the school (via WaPo): 


As The Washington Post's Emma Brown reports and the video above shows, DeVos was prevented by protesters from entering a Washington public school on Friday morning. After the demonstrators blocked the staircase she was trying to use and shouted at her, DeVos returned to her car, escorted by an aide. She later used another school entrance and went about her work.
One of DeVos’ predecessors, Arne Duncan, tweeted whether you agree or disagree with her position on education; she needs to be let into public schools to do her job. Even Randi Weingarten, President of the American Federation of Teachers, a member of the AFL-CIO, who is staunchly opposed to DeVos, said that she should be allowed to visit public schools. Her tweet came after she heard a protester blocked and almost knocked down the education secretary.


After the incident, DeVos released a statement, where she said she respects peaceful protests and will not be deterred in executing her duties as education secretary:

I thank D.C. Public Schools Chancellor Antwan Wilson, Jefferson Middle School Academy Principal Greg Dohmann, Superintendent Natalie Gordon and a tremendous team of administrators, teachers and students for welcoming me to Jefferson Middle School Academy today. Jefferson Academy is a public middle school on the rise and a great example of the successful collaborative innovations occurring within the D.C. Public Schools system.
"Focusing on their students and families is at the heart of Jefferson Academy's approach, and that's exactly what I believe is at the heart of providing an exceptional education. Great teachers and leaders help make great schools, and I was honored to speak with Jefferson's team about our shared commitment to strengthening public education.
"I respect peaceful protest, and I will not be deterred in executing the vital mission of the Department of Education. No school door in America will be blocked from those seeking to help our nation's school children
She persisted.

  Share this on Facebook (849)
  Tweet

  by Taboola Sponsored Links Promoted Stories
Woman Goes Missing From Disney Cruise: But 6 Years Later, Police Uncover Truth
LifeDaily.com
Buffalo Does Unbelievable What Follows Is Justice
Cyber-Breeze
Man Who Predicted Trump Win Makes New Prediction
MoneyWise411
15 Deleted Movie Scenes That Were Vital To The Plot
Detonate
by TaboolaMore From TownHall
Football Coach Fired For Praying With Team Turns Tables on School District
Tags:  WASHINGTON D.C. PUBLIC SCHOOLS BETSY DEVOS

Say What?! Donald Trump Would Have Won The Popular Vote If It Weren't For Gary Johnson
Matt Vespa|  
Oh, the Irony: Liberals Threaten to Homeschool Kids After DeVos Confirmed as Education Secretary
Leah Barkoukis|  
As The Left Wallows In 'Trump Is Hitler' Hysteria, IJ Review Asked Someone Who Lived Through Nazi Germany If There Are Similarities
Matt Vespa|  
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
Matt Vespa|  
ACLU Is Seeing A Trump-era Surge In Members and Donations

AP News|  


  
CARTOONS | JERRY HOLBERT
VIEW CARTOON 
Most Popular
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
Matt Vespa
Say What?! Donald Trump Would Have Won The Popular Vote If It Weren't For Gary Johnson
Matt Vespa
As The Left Wallows In 'Trump Is Hitler' Hysteria, IJ Review Asked Someone Who Lived Through Nazi Germany If There Are Similarities
Matt Vespa
Trending on Townhall Media
NBC News Spreads Fear, Lies With "Ghost Gun" Fake News
BEARING ARMS
Left-Fascism: Free Speech Restrictions on Campus
TOWNHALL FINANCE
A good friend of Trump's just kneecapped Reince Priebus to the WaPost and on CNN
TWITCHY
George Soros: Top 10 Reasons He Is Dangerous | Human Events
HUMAN EVENTS
 
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
TOWNHALL

Justice Department Kills Obama's Pervs-In-the-Girls-Bathroom Rule | RedState
REDSTATE
Video: SNL turns Kellyanne Conway into a crazed, sex-obsessed stalker - Hot Air
HOTAIR
					
Columnists Political Cartoons Tipsheet  Election Results Radio News Video Slideshows Tags Finance Townhall Radio
About Townhall Advertise Privacy Policy Terms of Use Radio Stations Sitemap Jobs  Contact Us Newsletters Townhall Mobile iPhone/Android Apps
  
Townhall.com is the leading source for conservative news and political commentary and analysis.
Copyright © Townhall.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you


`She Persisted: Betsy DeVos Calm And Collected After Protesters Blocked Her From Entering DC School - Matt Vespa
