
  
Home Page U.S. & World  | Regional
Politics
Opinions
Sports
Local
National
World
Business
Tech
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Crosswords
Video
Podcasts
Photography
Washington Post Live
Live Chats
Real Estate
Cars
Jobs
Classifieds
Partners
WP BrandStudio
washingtonpost.com
1996-2017 The Washington Post
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Submissions and Discussion Policy
RSS Terms of Service
Ad Choices
The Fix
Ranking the media from liberal to conservative, based on their audiences
By Aaron Blake 
October 21, 2014
One chart I didn't get to include in my post Tuesday morning on Pew's new study of Americans' media habits was the one below.

Pew has basically taken the average viewer/consumer of all of these media outlets and plotted them on a continuum, trying to ascertain which outlets are favored by which side of the political spectrum.

 
There aren't a whole ton of surprises here -- conservative talkers are on the far right, while most mainstream media outlets have a slightly left-of-center audience -- but there are a few interesting takeaways here:

1) The most-preferred media outlets of liberals, according to Pew's study, are the New Yorker and Slate.

5-Minute Fix newsletter
Keeping up with politics is easy now.
Sign up
2) Fox News's viewership is pretty moderate compared to the Hannitys, Limbaughs, Becks and Breitbarts. This is probably because Fox's audience is just so large that it couldn't be relegated to an extreme end of the chart. But even liberals watch Fox.

3) The broadcast stations (NBC, CBS, ABC) and online news sites like Yahoo and Google have a more middle-of-the-road audience than other mainstream media outlets. People who read BuzzFeed, Politico, The Washington Post and The New York Times all tend to be more liberal.

4) MSNBC, despite its reputation as the most liberal cable news network, has a more moderate audience than the four publications mentioned above -- and only a slightly more liberal audience than CNN.

5) About half of the 32 outlets have an audience that pretty clearly leans to the left, while seven have audiences that lean conservative. The rest (including all the broadcast networks) are somewhere near the middle.

That, more than anything else, is a testament to Fox's domination on the political right and American conservatives' distrust of other mainstream media outlets.

48 Comments
Aaron Blake is senior political reporter for The Fix.  Follow @aaronblake
  
Do you like game shows? Do you like politics? Whatever, you’ll LOVE The Ciquizza anyway.
Listen on iTunes.
Listen on Stitcher.
 
PAID PROMOTED STORIES
 
7 Mistakes to Avoid When Taking Distributions
AARP
 
An Apple engineer designed a sweatshirt that’s disrupting American…
American Giant
 
Trump Is Giving Homeowners Until February 28th To Claim Their $4,240 Federal…
The Better Finance
 
10 Things You Didn't Know About Hearing Aids
Hear.com
 
Homeowners Born Before 1985 Are Getting a Big Reward.
Smart Tips
 
Use Data To Sell Your Home For More
Homelight
Recommended by
Most Read
1
Marco Rubio just gave a really important speech — but almost no one paid attention
2
This video of Betsy DeVos being blocked by protesters shows what a powder keg our politics are
3
Sean Spicer went full Melissa McCarthy today
4
How Bannon’s Navy service during the Iran hostage crisis shaped his views
5
Jared Kushner proves to be a shadow diplomat on U.S.-Mexico talks
Unlimited Access to The Post. Just 99¢

Inside 'Trump Revealed'
Read stories based on reporting for “Trump Revealed,” a broad, comprehensive biography of the life of the president.
Reporting archive: Trump’s financial records, depositions and interview transcripts
washingtonpost.com
© 1996-2017 The Washington Post
 
Help and Contact Us
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Print Products Terms of Sale
Digital Products Terms of Sale
Submissions and Discussion Policy
RSS Terms of Service
Ad Choices
`Ranking the media from liberal to conservative, based on their audiences - The Washington Post
