
LOGIN
REGISTER
RS GATHERING
DIARIES
 ×
 

Can’t wait: Grammys Producer Encouraging More Politics in Award Speeches SHARE ON FACEBOOK SHARE ON TWITTER

Can’t Wait: Grammys Producer Encouraging More Politics In Award Speeches
Posted at 11:30 am on February 12, 2017 by Andrea Ruth

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter

 
 
If it’s been said once it’s been said a thousand times whenever people talk about inserting politics at awards shows. People want more of it. “More politics at awards shows!” is all one hears all day long.

A conversation about an awards show cannot go on for more than 30 seconds without someone saying, “you know, I just wish they’d get more into politics during the speeches.”

Obviously, that’s sarcastic and is generally the exact opposite of what most Americans say they want during non-political events, such as sports and awards shows that attract Americans from all different walks of life and political ideologies.

As Jay Caruso pointed out previously, ESPN’s SportsCenter was the best sports commentary shows on television until the hosts decided to start weighing in on politics. Today, people who used to love the show won’t watch and the ratings have suffered over time as a result.


 
TRENDING
CBS News Introduces "Nation Tracker" to Study Public Reaction to Trump | RedState
Mickey White
 
Rather than maintaining an all-are-welcome mentality, Grammy Awards producer Ken Ehrlich is putting out the “Your Kind Ain’t Welcome Here” sign this year.

“One of the tenets of our show is artistic freedom, and over the years we’ve shown we do believe in it,” Ehrlich told Variety. “How many more times do we need to hear ‘I’d like to thank my publicist, my agent, my wife and kids.’ The great acceptance speeches are ones that have a point of view and are more personal.”

The only guidelines on speech that Ehrlich has to keep an eye (and ear) on is profanity, given the potential for CBS to be hit with FCC fines if F-bombs fly before 10 p.m. But almost everything else is fair game.

“One of the things I’ve learned from working with artists for 40 years is that they are deep-thinking, vital individuals who have interests that cover a broad cover a broad spectrum of subjects and passions,” he said. “We should certainly allow for it on the broadcast.”
Deep-thinking and vital…and with nary any diversity of thought it seems. How brave. How truly courageous.

Woe to anyone sitting in that room who either voted for Republicans. Or if they simply feel that Donald Trump is president and as Americans we now need to figure out a way to make the best of the next four years, because that voice will be suppressed, oppressed and likely chased out of town if discovered.

Let’s be very clear, what Ehrlich is hoping for is the #Resist crowd, sitting in an echo chamber of leftists, will get up and spout off about Donald Trump and Republicans.

While the Grammys are still a ratings powerhouse, the award show hit a seven year low in 2016. Apparently, politics is more important than appealing to a wider audience of music lovers.

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter
TAGS:AWARDS SHOWSGRAMMYSHOLLYWOODSPEECHES
  by Taboola Sponsored Links Promoted Stories
We Tried Bombas Socks. Here’s What Happened:
Business Insider | Bombas Socks
Teen Goes Missing In Aruba: But 10 Years Later, Police Uncover Truth
LifeDaily.com
Alan Alda Kept This Hidden Throughout The Filming Of 'M*A*S*H’
Definition
Best CPAP Masks of 2016 - Love Them or Your Money Back
Easy Breathe
by TaboolaMore From RedState
A Difficult Goodbye

RECENT STORIES

 
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The “Idiot” In The White House
Susan Wright
 
 
Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration
Susan Wright
 
 
PUT UP OR SHUT UP: Trump Advisor Claims Voter Fraud; Has No Evidence (VIDEO)
Kimberly Ross
 
COMMENTS
POSTING RULES  |  LOGIN TO COMMENT  |  REGISTER TODAY



TRENDING
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
Justice Department Kills Obama's Pervs-In-the-Girls-Bathroom Rule
Why is the State of Texas Collecting Millions in Labor Union Dues?
No. It is Not Okay to Call Donald Trump "Mentally Ill" as an Insult
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The "Idiot" In The White House

 
Politico Rallies the Futile Resistance Declaring Trump Weak and Ineffectual
Dan Spencer
 
 
Satanic Temple Valentine’s Day Fundraiser Hopes To Raise Funds For Abortion Lawsuits
Susan Wright
 

 
RedState’s Water Cooler 2/12/17 – Open Thread – Ex Parte Merryman
colonelflagg
 
 
Swedish Government Debases Itself To Suck Up To Iranian Mullahs
streiff
 

 
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
Jay Caruso
 
 
Department of Education Proves We Need Reform in One Misspelled Tweet
Mickey White
 

RELATED STORIES
 
Can’t wait: Grammys Producer Encouraging More Politics in Award Speeches
Andrea Ruth
 
 
How Hollywood “Solved” Its Oscar Racism
Brad Slager
 
TRENDING ON TOWNHALL MEDIA
 
Taking Social Security Benefits Now vs. Later
finance.townhall.com
 
 
How the Travel Ban Helps Terrorists
townhall.com
 
 
Top 10 Reagan Achievements | Human Events
humanevents.com
 
 
A few thoughts on this new “left-wing tea party” movement - Hot Air
hotair.com
 
          
Home RS Gathering Advertise Newsletters Privacy Policy Terms of Use
 Copyright RedState.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you
 `Can't wait: Grammys Producer Encouraging More Politics in Award Speeches | RedState
