TypeError: undefined is not a constructor (evaluating 'r.getEntriesByName(e,"mark")')

  https://assets.guim.co.uk/javascripts/55beb25a12951b5af27b/graun.standard.js:24 in t
  https://assets.guim.co.uk/javascripts/55beb25a12951b5af27b/graun.standard.js:24
  :0 in map
  https://assets.guim.co.uk/javascripts/55beb25a12951b5af27b/graun.standard.js:24
If you use it, if you like it, then why not pay for it? It’s only fair. Make a Contribution
Close Skip to main content
The Guardian - Back to home
home	›	US	
politics
world
opinion
sports
soccer
tech
arts
lifestyle
fashion
business
travel
environment
all
US immigration The Resistance Now
ACLU launching People Power to resist Trump immigration policies in 'freedom cities'
One of the Trump administration’s major foes, civil rights organization plans to leverage cities’ authority to protect undocumented immigrants from deportation

Sign up for our weekly newsletter about the resistance movement in America
 
 The ACLU is hosting a People Power action event on Saturday, when it will issue specific guidelines to activists on how they can have an impact on immigrant rights at a local level. Photograph: Rex/Shutterstock
 View more sharing options
Shares
990
Adam Gabbatt 
Thursday 9 March 2017 20.14 EST Last modified on Friday 10 March 2017 08.28 EST

The American Civil Liberties Union is launching an ambitious plan to create a swath of “freedom cities” capable of resisting Donald Trump’s immigration policies.

The civil rights organization, which has emerged as one of the Trump administration’s major foes, plans to leverage individual cities’ local authority to protect undocumented immigrants from deportation.


American Civil Liberties Union rides high on anti-Trump wave
 Read more
The ACLU will reveal the freedom cities effort during the official launch of its new grassroots online platform, People Power, on Saturday. It will distribute a set of “ordinances” to activists, encouraging them to pressure local sheriffs and police commissioners to adopt more lenient policies on undocumented immigrants.

“As Donald Trump does what he does, the greatest political power is in the cities and towns across America,” said Faiz Shakir, the ACLU’s national political director.

“Because constitutionally, cities have sovereignty rights unto their own.”


The ACLU is hosting a People Power action event on Saturday, when it will issue specific guidelines to activists on how they can have an impact on immigrant rights at a local level. The event will be live-streamed, and Shakir said ACLU supporters had already set up 2,300 watch parties across all 50 states.

“Essentially we want people to think of their cities as cities of resistance,” Shakir said. The ACLU will issue nine ordinances to activists on Saturday, and ask them to present them to their local officials.

The ordinances resemble a pledge that could be made by local sheriffs or police commissioners. They include a commitment to “require a judicial warrant” before detaining people at the request of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and to not “authorize or engage” in surveillance of a person or group based on their perceived immigration status.

“We will be asking people to arrange a meeting with their sheriff or their police commissioner or their local precinct commander and raise these draft ordinances at that meeting,” Shakir said. “And have them discuss what their policies are with respect to immigrants. That would form the basis for follow-up meetings and follow-up policy advocacy.”

Activists will be encouraged to submit details of their meeting to the People Power website, Shakir said, enabling more people to attend. The ACLU has tripled its membership since the night of the November election, according to the Washington Post, and collected more than $80m in donations.

In planning the action, Shakir said he had “deviated away from the theory that [political action] needs to be simple”.

“I’m saying, OK, people are fired up and I’m going to test that and give them something a little bit difficult and hard and complex but has meaningful impact.”

The freedom cities plan represents a new foray into grassroots organizing for the ACLU, which has traditionally focused more on legislative action.

Shakir, a former senior adviser to former speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi and former Senate minority leader Harry Reid, joined the ACLU on 20 January – Trump’s inauguration day – to kick off the organizing effort. He has hired people who worked on Bernie Sanders’ campaign and for the White House under Barack Obama to work on the project.

The initial focus is on immigration, Shakir said, but the ACLU plans to expand, and have activists lobbying local officials on LGBT rights, women’s equality, police surveillance and other issues.

Since you’re here …
… we have a small favour to ask. More people than ever are regularly reading the Guardian, but far fewer are paying for it. Advertising revenues across the media are falling fast. And unlike many news organisations, we haven’t put up a paywall – we want to keep our journalism as open as we can. So we think it’s fair to ask people who visit us often for their help. The Guardian’s independent, investigative journalism takes a lot of time, money and hard work to produce. But we do it because we believe our perspective matters – because it might well be your perspective, too.

If you regularly read and value our reporting, support us now and help make our future much more secure.

Become a Supporter
Make a contribution
Topics
US immigration The Resistance Now
Trump travel ban news
Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Google+ Share on WhatsApp Share on Messenger
 
promoted linksfrom around the web
Recommended by Outbrain
About this Content
 
Breaking down President Trump’s US tax reform plan
EY
 
Tiny Device a Forefront of Technological Breakthrough (Shocking)
BANYAN HILL PUBLISHING
 
Never Buy a Car Without Doing THIS First!
CARS.COM
 
Drive Your Way To Gorgeous Views With These SLO CAL Highway 1 Detours
VISIT SLO CAL
About this Content
most viewed
back to top
home
politics
world
opinion
sports
soccer
tech
arts
lifestyle
fashion
business
travel
environment
 all
us news	
›	us immigration

facebook
twitter
jobs
guardian labs
subscribe
all topics
all contributors
solve technical issue
about us
contact us
work for us
complaints & corrections
terms & conditions
privacy policy
cookie policy
securedrop
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
 `ACLU launching People Power to resist Trump immigration policies in 'freedom cities' | US news | The Guardian
