1486878541.0TypeError: null is not an object (evaluating 'select_element.setAttribute')

  http://michellemalkin.com/wp-content/themes/malkin/js/mm.js?ver=4.6.1:68
A dose of prose-ac? Election-triggered writers treating Trump depression with poetry slams & literary events
 	
By Doug Powers  •  January 14, 2017 02:47 PM
**Written by Doug Powers

Election trauma therapy comes in all forms:
America’s leading poets are averse to Donald Trump, and they’re not about to go gentle into that good night.
Poetry slams and other literary events are being organized nationwide in the run-up to the President-elect’s Jan. 20 inauguration.
Some, like this weekend’s “Writers Resist” rallies in New York, Boston and 90 other U.S. cities, are overtly in protest. Others are merely an attempt to find a little solace and beauty in verse.
“Our country was founded on brilliant writing,” said Erin Belieu, an award-winning poet who runs the creative writing program at Florida State University. She hatched the Writers Resist movement “to re-inaugurate the best of our democratic ideals.”
On Sunday, poets, writers and artists will gather in 32 states — as well as in Amsterdam, Hong Kong, London and Singapore — to read aloud from their own works and quote inspirational passages from others.
What rhymes with “denial”?
Hopefully Hillary shows up to read her offering:
Sit on the bed
Tip up the flask
‘Why wasn’t I 50 points ahead’
You might all ask
Some say it was Putin
I for one blame Comey
The Weiner story was the worst thing
That Huma would show me
It certainly wasn’t my fault
I did all I could
Now please pass the salt
A margarita sounds good
**Written by Doug Powers
Twitter @ThePowersThatBe

blog comments powered by Disqus
Posted in: 2016 Campaign,Democrats,Donald Trump
Printer Friendly


Ninth Circuit keeps Trump’s travel ban blocked; Hillary rubs it in from undisclosed location nowhere near the White House
February 9, 2017 09:00 PM by Doug Powers

Weighing in from the sidelines
Dem Regrets? Dianne Feinstein has one (paging Harry Reid!)
February 9, 2017 04:09 PM by Doug Powers

Self-inflicted party paralysis
Liberal Event Horizon? Nancy Pelosi said something so wrong it stunned even Maxine Waters
February 7, 2017 08:49 PM by Doug Powers

Old habits die hard
Hillary Clinton to release new book & test paid speaker market’s appetite for influence peddlers with no influence
February 1, 2017 10:29 PM by Doug Powers

How to Win Friends and Fail to Influence Swing States
SCOTUS-geddon: Chris Matthews’ leg thrill vaporized by Trump’s apocalyptic ‘shock & awe’ campaign
January 31, 2017 09:21 PM by Doug Powers

The thrill is long gone

Categories: 2016 Campaign, Chris Matthews, Democrats, Donald Trump, Media Bias


 

 
AboutContactArchivesColumnsPhotosCRTV
Powered by Sound Strategies Inc.
Design by The BlogStudio
© 2004-2017 – Jazz Mustache LLC ‒ all rights reserved


`Michelle Malkin | » A dose of prose-ac? Election-triggered writers treating Trump depression with poetry slams & literary events
