ReferenceError: Can't find variable: twttr

  http://townhall.com/resources/js/sc.js:18
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in j
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in fireWith
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in ready
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in I
×
 


Townhall Tipsheet  Matt Vespa
JEFF SESSIONS
Liberal Tolerance: Sen. Tim Scott Reads His Hate Mail On Senate Floor For Supporting Sessions As AG
Matt Vespa |Posted: Feb 10, 2017 1:30 PM  Share (627)   Tweet


Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ nomination process was not smooth. It was fraught with political games and gimmicks that delayed his committee vote and his final confirmation vote. Alas, on Wednesday night, he was confirmed to be our top legal enforcer by a 52-47 vote; Sen. Joe Manchin (D-WV) broke with Democrats to vote for Sessions. Yet, while the attorney general took heat, Sen. Tim Scott (R-SC), the Senate’s only black Republican who supported his nomination, was bombarded by racist tweets by the Left.

Scott took to the Senate floor to deliver his remarks, where he referenced the hate that’s been hurled at him, even repeating some of the greatest hits, while keeping the ones calling him the n-word off the record. As a black conservative Republican, he knew that such hate would be hurled at him. “I’m used to being attacked,” he said. “It comes with the territory” (via Politico):


The 30-minute speech, which prompted congratulatory statements by Republicans and Democrats, was a distillation of the backlash he has received for supporting Sessions, who has faced accusations of racism for more than 30 years
You are an Uncle Tom, Scott. You’re for Sessions. How does a black man turn on his own,” Scott said, reading criticisms of himself on social media. "Tim Scott ... doesn’t have a shred of honor. He’s a House Negro like the one in ‘Django.’”
He added, “I left out all the ones that used the ‘n-word.’ Just felt like that would not be appropriate.”
Besides being called a disgrace to his race, Scott noted that since he’s viewed as being no ally of liberal America, he is therefore an enemy of black people. You all know this—it’s identity politics at its most toxic. So, while people say that Sessions is a racist, for which there is zero substantive evidence to support such a claim unlike the late Sen. Robert Byrd’s (D-WV) membership in the Ku Klux Klan, they should probably look at what’s hurled at conservatives that happen to be people of color.

“House negro.” I would say that’s—what’s the word—oh, racist.

Also, it's the Senate GOP that have diverse staffs, not the Democrats. Scott has a black chief of staff, which is a rarity among Senate Democrats. He also mentioned this fact in his remarks.

"My chief of staff, the only — until three weeks ago, the only African-American chief of staff in the United States Senate out of a 100 is the chief of staff for a Republican," he said. "The second African-American chief of staff in the United States Senate is the chief of staff of a Republican."

Democrats seem to be all talk, no action on the issue of inclusion and diversity. 


  Share this on Facebook (627)
  Tweet

  by Taboola Sponsored Links Promoted Stories
New Executive Order: Big Changes for Retirees
Money Morning
Man Who Predicted Trump Win Makes New Prediction
MoneyWise411
15 Deleted Movie Scenes That Were Vital To The Plot
Detonate
10 Pictures That Prove Betty White Has Always Been a Babe
Cyber Breeze
by TaboolaMore From TownHall
CNN Wanted Leftist Kid To Ask A Fluff Question To Pelosi At Town Hall Event. That Didn't Happen
Tags:  JEFF SESSIONS SENATE REPUBLICANS TIM SCOTT ATTORNEY GENERAL

Say What?! Donald Trump Would Have Won The Popular Vote If It Weren't For Gary Johnson
Matt Vespa|  
Oh, the Irony: Liberals Threaten to Homeschool Kids After DeVos Confirmed as Education Secretary
Leah Barkoukis|  
As The Left Wallows In 'Trump Is Hitler' Hysteria, IJ Review Asked Someone Who Lived Through Nazi Germany If There Are Similarities
Matt Vespa|  
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
Matt Vespa|  
ACLU Is Seeing A Trump-era Surge In Members and Donations

AP News|  


  

CARTOONS | JERRY HOLBERT
VIEW CARTOON 
Most Popular
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
Matt Vespa
Say What?! Donald Trump Would Have Won The Popular Vote If It Weren't For Gary Johnson
Matt Vespa
As The Left Wallows In 'Trump Is Hitler' Hysteria, IJ Review Asked Someone Who Lived Through Nazi Germany If There Are Similarities
Matt Vespa


Trending on Townhall Media
NBC News Spreads Fear, Lies With "Ghost Gun" Fake News
BEARING ARMS
Left-Fascism: Free Speech Restrictions on Campus
TOWNHALL FINANCE
A good friend of Trump's just kneecapped Reince Priebus to the WaPost and on CNN
TWITCHY
George Soros: Top 10 Reasons He Is Dangerous | Human Events
HUMAN EVENTS
 
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
TOWNHALL

Justice Department Kills Obama's Pervs-In-the-Girls-Bathroom Rule | RedState
REDSTATE
Video: SNL turns Kellyanne Conway into a crazed, sex-obsessed stalker - Hot Air
HOTAIR
					
Columnists Political Cartoons Tipsheet  Election Results Radio News Video Slideshows Tags Finance Townhall Radio
About Townhall Advertise Privacy Policy Terms of Use Radio Stations Sitemap Jobs  Contact Us Newsletters Townhall Mobile iPhone/Android Apps
  
Townhall.com is the leading source for conservative news and political commentary and analysis.
Copyright © Townhall.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you


`Liberal Tolerance: Sen. Tim Scott Reads His Hate Mail On Senate Floor For Supporting Sessions As AG - Matt Vespa
