
Democracy Dies in Darkness
  
Home Page U.S. & World  | Regional
Politics
Opinions
Sports
Local
National
World
Business
Tech
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Crosswords
Video
Newsletters & Alerts
Podcasts
Photography
Washington Post Live
Live Chats
Real Estate
Cars
Jobs
Classifieds
Partners
WP BrandStudio
washingtonpost.com
1996-2017 The Washington Post
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Submissions and Discussion Policy
RSS Terms of Service
Ad Choices
Grade Point
DeVos dials back consumer protections for student loan borrowers
By Danielle Douglas-Gabriel 
April 11 at 4:30 PM
 
Betsy DeVos, U.S. secretary of education, speaks to employees earlier this year, on her first day at the Department of Education in Washington. (Bloomberg)
Education Secretary Betsy DeVos on Tuesday withdrew a series of policy memos issued by the Obama administration to strengthen consumer protections for student loan borrowers.

The Education Department is in the middle of issuing new contracts to student loan servicing companies that collect payments on behalf of the agency. These middlemen are responsible for placing borrowers in affordable repayment plans and keeping them from defaulting on their loans. But in the face of mounting consumer complaints over poor communication, mismanaged paperwork and delays in processing payments, the previous administration included contract requirements to shore up the quality of servicing. Companies complained that the demands would be expensive and unnecessarily time consuming.

“This process has been subjected to a myriad of moving deadlines, changing requirements and a lack of consistent objectives,” Devos said Tuesday, in a letter addressed to James  W. Runcie, who heads the Federal Student Aid office at the department. “We must promptly address not only these shortcomings but also any other issues that may impede our ability to ensure borrowers do not experience deficiencies in service. This must be done with precision, timeliness and transparency.”

[Government gets tough on student loan servicers, but will it be effective?]

DeVos has withdrawn three memos issued by former education secretary John King and his under secretary Ted Mitchell. One of the directives, which was later updated with another memo, called on Runcie to hold companies accountable for borrowers receiving accurate, consistent and timely information about their debt. The 56-page memo called for the creation of financial incentives for targeted outreach to people at great risk of defaulting on their loans, a baseline level of service for all borrowers and a contract flexible enough to penalize servicers for poor service, among other things.

The Obama administration requested routine audits of records, systems, complaints and a compliance-review process. It also directed Runcie’s team to base compensation on response time to answering calls, completing applications for income-driven repayment plans, errors made during communications and the amount of time it takes to process payments. Another memo insisted FSA consider a company’s past performance in divvying up the student loan portfolio.

“In order to have accountability, there must be real consequences when servicers violate the law,” said Alexis Goldstein, senior policy analyst at the progressive Americans for Financial Reform. “DeVos’s actions today moves us away from true accountability, and creates dangers for the very student loan borrowers the department is responsible for protecting.”

The exhaustive list of demands were a direct response to an outpouring of complaints to the Education Department and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The CFPB, in particular, has documented instances of servicing companies providing inconsistent information, misplacing paperwork or charging unexpected fees. Because the federal government pays hundreds of millions of dollars to companies such as Navient, Great Lakes and American Education Services to manage $1.2 trillion in student loans, advocacy groups and lawmakers argue that more should be required of these contractors.

“This action really raises the stakes for the CFPB to clean up problems in the market by developing common sense rules,” said Rohit Chopra, the former student loan ombudsman at the CFPB and a senior fellow at the Consumer Federation of America. “If the Education Department is not going to clean up its own servicers using its buyer power, then regulators will have to step in to create a leveled playing field.”

[Student loan defaults are rising faster than you think]

Critics of servicing companies lay blame at their feet for the continued rise in student loan defaults. A recent analysis by the Consumer Federation of America found that millions of people had not made a payment on $137 billion in federal student loans for at least nine months in 2016, a 14 percent increase in defaults from a year earlier. Though the number of borrowers defaulting for the first time in the direct loan program slowed last year, tens of thousands of people are defaulting for at least a second time, leaving policy analysts to question the effectiveness of loan servicing.

Researchers at the Government Accountability Office found that 70 percent of people in default actually qualified for a lower monthly payment through income-driven plans that cap monthly payments to a percentage of earnings but that servicers failed to provide sufficient information. Even when the companies reach out to delinquent borrowers, the information was often inconsistent, according to the GAO.

[Not enough people know of a critical way to manage student debt. And it’s the government’s fault, GAO says.]

But some servicers say that they pour all of their resources into catching borrowers before they default but that all of the mailers, calls and emails often go ignored. They complain that there is too much complexity in the federal student loan program and that this is at the heart of the problems consumers encounter. Servicing companies are eager to work with the Trump administration to fix the current system, said Michele Streeter of the Education Finance Council, a trade group representing nonprofit and state-based student loan servicers.

“Students and families deserve a high-quality loan servicing environment that is consistent, transparent and fair, and that guides them through their repayment period successfully,” she said.

Navient chief executive Jack Remondi, in an interview with The Washington Post earlier this year, said the government has too many inconsistencies in regulations and standards governing servicing companies. His company is battling multiple lawsuits that accuse Navient of steering people into costly payment options, rather than take the time to offer the best solutions — charges that Remondi vehemently denies.

“We’ve argued and begged for clear and consistent rules for loan servicers,” Remondi said. “We’ve asked the department to be able to co-browse with borrowers on the website to assist them in completing the application to make sure they complete it correctly. We’ve asked for the right to do verbal enrollment. We’ve argued extensively for simplification and received zero response or action.”

Navient officials struck a different tone last month in a motion to dismiss one of the lawsuits, stating that “there is no expectation that the servicer will act in the interest of the consumer,” a position that riled consumer advocates and borrowers.

In her letter Tuesday, DeVos said the new contract affords an opportunity to improve outcomes for borrowers and demonstrate “sound fiscal stewardship” of taxpayer dollars.

“We must create a student loan servicing environment that provides the highest quality customer service and increases accountability and transparency for all borrowers, while also limiting the cost to taxpayers,” she said.

Rescinding the memos comes as the department is facing $9 billion in proposed budget cuts from the White House, with the Trump administration redirecting money away from higher education programs toward its school choice agenda.

Grade Point newsletter
News and issues affecting higher education.
Sign up
 

Want to read more about student loan repayment? Check out:

Federal watchdog sees major cracks in program to help student loan defaulters

If you pay more than the amount due on your student loans, you might be in for a surprise

Delays. Backlogs. Confusing applications. Obama’s latest student loan plan is having growing pains.

3 Comments
Danielle Douglas-Gabriel covers the economics of education, writing about the financial lives of students from when they take out student debt through their experiences in the job market. Before that, she wrote about the banking industry.  Follow @DaniDougPost
 
PAID PROMOTED STORIES
 
Angelina Jolie's New Go-To Travel Shoe Is Surprisingly Affordable
Vogue
 
If You Are An American Resident Born Between 1936 and 1966 Check This Out
EverQuote
 
Why Crowdfunding is Helping Real Estate Investors
RealtyShares
 
The Fastest Way To Pay Off $10,000 Of Debt
NerdWallet
 
Drive in comfort with a large luxury car.
Yahoo Search
 
Homeowners Still Have Time Before Deadline Ends
Clever Economy
Recommended by
Most Read
1
United Airlines CEO apologizes for ‘horrific event,’ promises review of policies after passenger violently deplaned
2
A man wouldn’t leave an overbooked United flight. So he was dragged off, battered and limp.
3
Hunting down runaway slaves: The cruel ads of Andrew Jackson and ‘the master class’
4
She wanted to criticize Black Lives Matter in a college speech. A protest shut her down.
5
Sessions orders Justice Dept. to end forensic science commission, suspend review policy

The story must be told.
Subscribe to The Washington Post.
Subscribe
Our Online Games
Play right from this page


Mahjongg Dimensions
Strategy game
 
Spider Solitaire
Card game
 
Mahjongg Candy
Strategy game
 
Word Wipe
Word game
 
 
Search Jobs Featured Jobs
Recruiting Coordinator
University Of Maryland University College
Technician
Hughes Network Systems
Lecturer - Health Care Management
Marymount University
washingtonpost.com
© 1996-2017 The Washington Post
 
Help and Contact Us
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Print Products Terms of Sale
Digital Products Terms of Sale
Submissions and Discussion Policy
RSS Terms of Service
Ad Choices
`DeVos dials back consumer protections for student loan borrowers - The Washington Post
