TypeError: null is not an object (evaluating 'a.appendChild')

  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:27 in k
  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:27 in n
  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:27 in toJSON
  http://redstate.disqus.com/embed.js:28 in loadEmbed

LOGIN
REGISTER
RS GATHERING
DIARIES
 ×
 

#FakeNews: The Media’s Devotion to Left Wing Confirmation Bias SHARE ON FACEBOOK SHARE ON TWITTER

#FakeNews: The Media’s Devotion To Left Wing Confirmation Bias
Posted at 4:30 am on February 12, 2017 by Joe Cunningham

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter

 
 
Ever since Donald Trump won the presidency, those normally tasked with presenting the current events of the day to its readers have lost their ever-loving minds with a neurotic devotion to the task of “exposing” the man as a con artist, fraud, racist, incompetent moron of epic proportions.

This devotion to a goal that clearly compromises their ability to be neutral and objective in their reporting has left media critics with ample opportunity to write the same things we’ve been saying for years about their behavior. The press has seized on to every rumor, whisper, and inkling of wrong-doing that has popped up, and has in many, many cases had to retract or change the stories they have written in order to reflect the true facts of the case.

The #FakeNews Menace, such as it was during the race, was centered around people clicking links to stories that seemed to confirm what the readers already believed about the candidate they were researching. It’s called “confirmation bias” – to be so biased that you go seeking only the information that confirms your hypothesis – and it has led to a great many incorrect stories being presented as true.

However, it was a series of sites that were not run by professional news outlets that created and pushed the fake news during the election. In the months since, the biggest pushers of fake news have been the traditional media itself.


 
TRENDING
The dirty little secrets of illegal immigration | RedState
Dana Pico
 
On a nearly constant basis, reporters for major, traditional media outlets have grabbed on to a story and run with it, only for that story to collapse under the weight of its own bull@#$%. Each and every time, almost without fail, the retractions have been quiet and not discussed with the level of fanfare that the original stories were given.

Of course, this is somewhat understandable as the corrections you would have to make on these stories would include “Welp, we assumed the worst about Trump/Trump Supporters/Republicans/People Who Disagree With Us and it turned out we didn’t do our job reporting the truth.”

These are the people who have given themselves the mantle of Truth Bearers, and they should therefore be held to high standards when they screw up on such a great magnitude. It may sound harsh, but if someone is so egregiously guilty of this kind of mistake, they should be suspended, if not fired.

This type of confirmation bias is not new, nor is it limited to just Democrats and the Media. However, some of the biggest blockbuster stories that have been pushed at us have been written promoting left-of-center agendas (It doesn’t have to be about Trump. Just ask Rolling Stone and the University of Virginia.).

After the 2016 election, several media outlets held in-house reviews of their current practices and what needed to be changed. It appears that, no where in their reviews, were pushes to hold reporters accountable for embarrassing misreporting… so long as it pushes a certain agenda.

Share On Facebook Share On Twitter
TAGS:CONFIRMATION BIASDONALD TRUMPFAKE NEWS
  by Taboola Sponsored Links Promoted Stories
15 Deleted Movie Scenes That Were Vital To The Plot
Detonate
This Is What 2 Cups Of Diet Soda Per Day Will Do To Your Belly
BIO X4 Supplement
Becoming Anna: Overcoming Rheumatoid Arthritis
HealthCentral.com
The one shimmer oil you need to look glowy all summer long
Bustle | Kopari Beauty
by TaboolaMore From RedState
Feel Good Video of the Day: Watch Colin Kaepernick Get Destroyed While the National Anthem Plays

RECENT STORIES

 
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The “Idiot” In The White House
Susan Wright
 
 
Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration
Susan Wright
 
 
PUT UP OR SHUT UP: Trump Advisor Claims Voter Fraud; Has No Evidence (VIDEO)
Kimberly Ross
 
COMMENTS
POSTING RULES  |  LOGIN TO COMMENT  |  REGISTER TODAY



TRENDING
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
Justice Department Kills Obama's Pervs-In-the-Girls-Bathroom Rule
Why is the State of Texas Collecting Millions in Labor Union Dues?
No. It is Not Okay to Call Donald Trump "Mentally Ill" as an Insult
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The "Idiot" In The White House

 
Politico Rallies the Futile Resistance Declaring Trump Weak and Ineffectual
Dan Spencer
 
 
Satanic Temple Valentine’s Day Fundraiser Hopes To Raise Funds For Abortion Lawsuits
Susan Wright
 

 
RedState’s Water Cooler 2/12/17 – Open Thread – Ex Parte Merryman
colonelflagg
 
 
Swedish Government Debases Itself To Suck Up To Iranian Mullahs
streiff
 

 
Watch Greg Gutfeld Unload On Cowardly Comedians Who Ignored Obama For Eight Years
Jay Caruso
 
 
Department of Education Proves We Need Reform in One Misspelled Tweet
Mickey White
 

RELATED STORIES
 
Hezbollah Leader Scoffs At The “Idiot” In The White House
Susan Wright
 
 
Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration
Susan Wright
 
TRENDING ON TOWNHALL MEDIA
 
Left-Fascism: Free Speech Restrictions on Campus
finance.townhall.com
 
 
Donald Trump Has Caused The Left to Lose Its Mind
townhall.com
 
 
Black progression and retrogression | Human Events
humanevents.com
 
 
The media has found their perfect illegal immigrant for the narrative « Hot Air
hotair.com
 
          
Home RS Gathering Advertise Newsletters Privacy Policy Terms of Use
 Copyright RedState.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you
BESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswy
 `#FakeNews: The Media's Devotion to Left Wing Confirmation Bias | RedState
