ReferenceError: Can't find variable: twttr

  http://townhall.com/resources/js/sc.js:18
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in j
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in fireWith
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in ready
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in I
×
 


Townhall Tipsheet  Guy Benson
OBAMACARE
Obamacare: Doctor Avoids Own ER Visit Due to Huge Deductible, Plus Bernie's Admission
Guy Benson |Posted: Feb 09, 2017 4:01 PM  Share (384)   Tweet


Earlier in the week, we wrote about Obamacare's poor enrollment numbers -- which are largely attributable to the law's lack of affordability, and the resulting unsustainable market. In related news, the Washington Post reports on a medical doctor who decided to ignore his own medical advice because of his family plan's towering deductible. Some of these quotes are especially striking coming from someone in the medical profession who should literally know better:

All the doctor’s tricks were failing him. He’d tried neck massage, pressure to the eyes, ice on the face. But an hour in, Ashish Jha still couldn’t slow his racing heart. His wife asked what he’d recommend if a patient called with the same problem. “I said, ‘Oh, that’s easy.’ Go to the emergency department.” As a physician, Jha knew that this tachycardia could lead to a heart attack. Yet he felt caught by a decision he’d made in enrolling his family in a high-deductible insurance plan. Such plans, which offer lower premiums in exchange for higher out-of-pocket expenses, are an increasingly common type of coverage for millions of Americans. The Harvard University health-policy researcher had chosen his — with its $6,000 deductible — as a kind of personal experiment in better understanding how that trade-off influences health. And now, when faced with the prospect of paying thousands of dollars for an emergency-room visit, Jha stayed home. “I should have gone to the hospital,” he said recently. But “I knew there was a big bill waiting for me if I did, and I rolled the dice.”
The government cannot mandate that people make good decisions for themselves in these situations, but the problem with Obamacare is that under its bronze and silver plans, millions of consumers are forced to confront the high-deductible dilemma on top of spiking monthly premiums. It's a double whammy: You're paying hundreds upon hundreds of dollars every month for "coverage" that doesn't even kick in until you've paid thousands of dollars out of pocket. And the problem is getting worse as fewer young, healthy people are choosing to pay into what they've concluded is an unaffordable racket.  Meanwhile, here's Ted Cruz getting Bernie Sanders to admit that the Obama Democrats' promise of substantial cost decreases under the so-called "Affordable" Care Act  "turns out not to be true:"


Score a major point for Cruz in this exchange.  And notice Sanders' demagoguery at the very start of the clip accusing Republicans of trying to kill Medicare, to which replies with a laugh and quip.  Republicans' mathematically-necessary proposed Medicare reforms are designed to save the program from inevitable insolvency along the current trajectory.  Saying that they want to end Medicare was flagged as left-leaning Politifact's  lie of the year in 2011.  I'll leave you with a brief polling note.  Many liberals are excitedly pointing to some surveys showing increased opposition to the repeal of Obamacare.  Some of that sentiment is real and caused by status quo bias, wherein people are inherently anxious about significant policy changes.  But other polls show plurality support for anti-Obamacare executive actions taken by President Trump, and when the concept of repeal and replace (as opposed to repeal in isolation) is tested, it has lopsided support.  Republicans cannot waiver from this pledge. The law is failing and hurting people, and voters sided with the GOP in three of the last four elections as they campaigned unequivocally on the promise of repeal and replace.  Unsurprisingly, Charles Krauthammer is correct on both points here.  The key to avoiding the latter political debacle is crafting and passing a strong replacement plan:


  Share this on Facebook (384)
  Tweet

  by Taboola Sponsored Links Promoted Stories
10 Pictures That Prove Betty White Has Always Been a Babe
Cyber Breeze
New Executive Order: Big Changes for Retirees
Money Morning
You're In For A Big Surprise in 2017 If You Own A Home in Washington
Morning Finance | LendingTree Quotes
This Style Box will Change Plus-Size Shopping Forever
Dia & Co
by TaboolaMore From TownHall
CNN Wanted Leftist Kid To Ask A Fluff Question To Pelosi At Town Hall Event. That Didn't Happen
Tags:  OBAMACARE BERNIE SANDERS TED CRUZ

Say What?! Donald Trump Would Have Won The Popular Vote If It Weren't For Gary Johnson
Matt Vespa|  
Oh, the Irony: Liberals Threaten to Homeschool Kids After DeVos Confirmed as Education Secretary
Leah Barkoukis|  
As The Left Wallows In 'Trump Is Hitler' Hysteria, IJ Review Asked Someone Who Lived Through Nazi Germany If There Are Similarities
Matt Vespa|  
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
Matt Vespa|  
ACLU Is Seeing A Trump-era Surge In Members and Donations

AP News|  


  

CARTOONS | JERRY HOLBERT
VIEW CARTOON 
Most Popular
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
Matt Vespa
Say What?! Donald Trump Would Have Won The Popular Vote If It Weren't For Gary Johnson
Matt Vespa
As The Left Wallows In 'Trump Is Hitler' Hysteria, IJ Review Asked Someone Who Lived Through Nazi Germany If There Are Similarities
Matt Vespa


Trending on Townhall Media
Left-Fascism: Free Speech Restrictions on Campus
TOWNHALL FINANCE
George Soros: Top 10 Reasons He Is Dangerous | Human Events
HUMAN EVENTS
Quit Lying to Women About How to Survive Violent Attacks...Please.
BEARING ARMS
A good friend of Trump's just kneecapped Reince Priebus to the WaPost and on CNN
TWITCHY
 
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
TOWNHALL

Video: SNL turns Kellyanne Conway into a crazed, sex-obsessed stalker - Hot Air
HOTAIR
Justice Department Kills Obama's Pervs-In-the-Girls-Bathroom Rule | RedState
REDSTATE
					
Columnists Political Cartoons Tipsheet  Election Results Radio News Video Slideshows Tags Finance Townhall Radio
About Townhall Advertise Privacy Policy Terms of Use Radio Stations Sitemap Jobs  Contact Us Newsletters Townhall Mobile iPhone/Android Apps
  
Townhall.com is the leading source for conservative news and political commentary and analysis.
Copyright © Townhall.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you


 `Obamacare: Doctor Avoids Own ER Visit Due to Huge Deductible, Plus Bernie's Admission - Guy Benson
