

Back to Facts
NEWS WITHOUT BIAS
 
Feb 10
ICE conducts raids in Southern California
Immigration
More than 150 arrested with criminal histories

About 160 foreign nationals from a dozen countries were arrested in six Southern California counties this week during a routine targeted enforcement operation aimed at criminal aliens, illegal re-entrants, and immigration fugitives, according to ICE spokeswoman Virginia Kice in an e-mailed statement to Back to Facts.

Kice added that a "rash of recent reports" about ICE checkpoints and random sweeps are "false, dangerous, and irresponsible."

"These reports create panic and put communities and law enforcement personnel in unnecessary danger. Individuals who falsely report such activities are doing a disservice to those they claim to support."

In a conference call with the media, Field Director David Marin said the agency began planning this raid before any executive orders by President Donald Trump.

He said the last enforcement surge was in July and yielded 240 arrests.

He said recent reports of those in custody being prevented from seeing an attorney were false. 

 "Let me be clear to everyone, we have facilitated a meeting with everyone we have arrested," he said. "If there were circumstances where this happened, please let us know so that we can move immediately to rectify the situation."

Of the 10 non-criminals taken into custody, five had final orders of removal or had been previously deported. Many of those arrested had prior felony convictions for serious or violent offenses, such as child sex crimes, weapons charges, and assault.

Some of those arrested will be presented to the U.S. Attorney’s Office for prosecution for illegal re-entry after deportation. Those who have outstanding deportation orders are subject to immediate removal from the country. The remaining individuals are in ICE custody awaiting a hearing before an immigration judge, or pending travel arrangements for removal in the near future.

The operation began Monday and concluded today, Friday, at noon local time. The enforcement effort involved 11 teams of deportation officers, including those personnel regularly assigned to the nine Fugitive Operations Teams based in the seven-county area that falls under the jurisdiction of ERO’s Los Angeles field office. 

This week’s operation targeted public safety threats, such as convicted sex offender and known gang members, and individuals who have violated our nation’s immigration laws, including those who re-entered the country after being deported and immigration fugitives who absconded after being ordered deported by federal immigration judges.

Among those arrested during the Los Angeles-area operation were:

o   A Salvadoran national MS-13 member arrested in Huntington Park who is wanted in his native country for aggravated extortion;

o   A Brazilian national arrested in Los Angeles who is wanted in Brazil for cocaine trafficking; and

o   An Australian national taken into custody in West Hollywood who was previously convicted of lewd and lascivious acts with a child.

"ICE regularly conducts targeted enforcement surges during which additional resources and personnel are dedicated to apprehending deportable foreign nationals," Kice's statement said. "All enforcement activities are conducted with the same level of professionalism and respect that ICE officers exhibit every day. ... While this week’s operation was an enforcement surge, the focus was no different than the routine, targeted arrests carried out by ICE’s Fugitive Operations Teams on a daily basis.

This story does not reflect the opinions of advocates for immigrants. More details will be forthcoming as we receive them.

Story updated 6 pm PST 2/10/2017
immigration ICE raid operation criminal histories enforcement
 
Tatiana Prophet
Subscribe

Get updates from Back to Facts.




 
 SIGN UP
Most Recent Post

Cameras hacked, restored before inauguration
Feb 8, 2017
Instagram

@backtofacts
Feb 9 The election, by the numbers
Powered by Squarespace
Home
Welcome
Newsfeed
Articles
Contact
Critiques
Flip Your Meme
Issues
Trace the Story
`ICE conducts raids in Southern California — Back to Facts
