TypeError: null is not an object (evaluating 'select_element.setAttribute')

  http://michellemalkin.com/wp-content/themes/malkin/js/mm.js?ver=4.6.1:68
Cue awkward silence: North Dakota tax commish keeping eye out for W2 and 1099 forms from paid Standing Rock agitators
 	
By Doug Powers  •  January 31, 2017 01:54 PM
**Written by Doug Powers
Well, this is one way to chase them off:
After spending more than $22 million on the Dakota Access pipeline protest, North Dakota wants to make sure any paid activists remember to submit their state income taxes.
Tax Commissioner Ryan Rauschenberger said his office is keeping an eye out for tax forms from environmental groups that may have hired protesters to agitate against the 1,172-mile, four-state pipeline project.
“It’s something we’re looking at. I can tell you I’ve had a number of conversations with legislators regarding this very issue,” said Mr. Rauschenberger. “[We’re] looking at the entities that have potential paid contractors here on their behalf doing work.”
It’s no secret that millions have been funneled into the six-month-old demonstration via crowdfunding websites, and that more than 30 environmental organizations, including the Sierra Club, Indigenous Environmental Network, Food and Water Watch, 350.org and Greenpeace, have backed the protest.
If national environmental organizations are paying protest personnel, they’re not saying so publicly. Still, Mr. Rauschenberger said red flags will be raised if he doesn’t start seeing W2 or 1099 tax forms from those affiliated with the protest arriving at his office.
Does Rauschenberger mean some of these protesters might be camping out and agitating in N.D. in the middle of winter because they’re getting paid and not for the “cause”? No way! Follow the money and audit accordingly:

**Written by Doug Powers
Twitter @ThePowersThatBe

blog comments powered by Disqus
Posted in: Democrats,Enviro-nitwits
Printer Friendly


Dem Regrets? Dianne Feinstein has one (paging Harry Reid!)
February 9, 2017 04:09 PM by Doug Powers

Self-inflicted party paralysis
Liberal Event Horizon? Nancy Pelosi said something so wrong it stunned even Maxine Waters
February 7, 2017 08:49 PM by Doug Powers

Old habits die hard
Hillary Clinton stakes claim on future in name of liberal women who shouldn’t have to wonder why they’re not ahead by 50 points
February 7, 2017 11:01 AM by Doug Powers

Definition of insanity
A little rumor birdie told Robert Reich the ‘right-wing’ was behind Berkeley violence
February 3, 2017 12:48 PM by Doug Powers

Of course
SCOTUS-geddon: Chris Matthews’ leg thrill vaporized by Trump’s apocalyptic ‘shock & awe’ campaign
January 31, 2017 09:21 PM by Doug Powers

The thrill is long gone

Categories: 2016 Campaign, Chris Matthews, Democrats, Donald Trump, Media Bias


 

 
AboutContactArchivesColumnsPhotosCRTV
Powered by Sound Strategies Inc.
Design by The BlogStudio
© 2004-2017 – Jazz Mustache LLC ‒ all rights reserved


`Michelle Malkin | » Cue awkward silence: North Dakota tax commish keeping eye out for W2 and 1099 forms from paid Standing Rock agitators
