TypeError: null is not an object (evaluating 'select_element.setAttribute')

  http://michellemalkin.com/wp-content/themes/malkin/js/mm.js?ver=4.6.1:68
Hillary Clinton to release new book & test paid speaker market’s appetite for influence peddlers with no influence
 	
By Doug Powers  •  February 1, 2017 10:29 PM
**Written by Doug Powers
Hillary’s comeback begins now:
Hillary Clinton has a lot of plans for 2017, including some reflections on her stunning loss last fall to Donald Trump.
The former secretary of state, senator and first lady is working on a book of personal essays expected to come out Sept. 26, Simon & Schuster told The Associated Press on Wednesday. The book, still untitled, is structured around hundreds of favorite quotations that have inspired her. The publisher said Clinton will use the quotes to “tell stories from her life, up to and including her experiences in the 2016 presidential campaign” and into her thoughts on the future.
“These are the words I live by,” Clinton said in a statement. “These quotes have helped me celebrate the good times, laugh at the absurd times, persevere during the hard times and deepen my appreciation of all life has to offer.”
“I hope by sharing these words and my thoughts about them, the essays will be meaningful for readers,” Clinton added.
Clinton will also resume her relationship with the Harry Walker Agency, the speakers bureau she worked with after she stepped down in 2013 as secretary of state.
The book is yet untitled, but I’m thinking “‘WHY AREN’T I 50 POINTS AHEAD?’ A Cautionary Tale” would sum it up. Or maybe a motivational angle would work while simultaneously explaining a dramatic drop in Hillary’s speaking fees: “Who Moved My Influence?”
**Written by Doug Powers
Twitter @ThePowersThatBe

blog comments powered by Disqus
Posted in: 2016 Campaign,Hillary Clinton
Printer Friendly


Ninth Circuit keeps Trump’s travel ban blocked; Hillary rubs it in from undisclosed location nowhere near the White House
February 9, 2017 09:00 PM by Doug Powers

Weighing in from the sidelines
Dem Regrets? Dianne Feinstein has one (paging Harry Reid!)
February 9, 2017 04:09 PM by Doug Powers

Self-inflicted party paralysis
Liberal Event Horizon? Nancy Pelosi said something so wrong it stunned even Maxine Waters
February 7, 2017 08:49 PM by Doug Powers

Old habits die hard
SCOTUS-geddon: Chris Matthews’ leg thrill vaporized by Trump’s apocalyptic ‘shock & awe’ campaign
January 31, 2017 09:21 PM by Doug Powers

The thrill is long gone
Magic Mic: Audio problem leaves totally relatable Nancy Pelosi speechless and in search of ‘real people’
January 31, 2017 10:29 AM by Doug Powers

Symbolic

Categories: 2016 Campaign, Donald Trump, Feature Story, Nancy Pelosi


 

 
AboutContactArchivesColumnsPhotosCRTV
Powered by Sound Strategies Inc.
Design by The BlogStudio
© 2004-2017 – Jazz Mustache LLC ‒ all rights reserved


`Michelle Malkin | » Hillary Clinton to release new book & test paid speaker market’s appetite for influence peddlers with no influence
