ReferenceError: Can't find variable: twttr

  http://townhall.com/resources/js/sc.js:18
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in j
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in fireWith
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in ready
  https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.4/jquery.min.js:2 in I
×
 


Townhall Tipsheet  Meleana Moore
NATIONAL SECURITY
Assad Jumps on 'Fake News' Bandwagon
Meleana Moore |Posted: Feb 10, 2017 9:45 AM  Share (12)   Tweet


"Fake news" is a term that has been lingering on all of our news feeds lately; it appears that Trump has popularized it so much that now it's becoming an excuse for not-so-excusable people. 

Syrian President Bashar al-Assad happens to be one of those people. In response to allegations from Amnesty International of torture and mass killings in a military prison just outside of Damascus, Assad defended his honor in a Yahoo News exclusive declaring that the "fake news era" we are currently in is responsible for said allegations. Although, he did declare that the execution of prisoners is a component of Syrian law. 

“You can forge anything these days,” Assad said when asked about a new Amnesty International report estimating that between 5,000 and 13,000 prisoners were killed in a “calculated campaign of extrajudicial execution” at a military prison outside of Damascus between 2011 and December 2015. “We are living in a fake news era.” 
Assad went on to dismiss photographs of numerous political prisoners, "depicting rows of emaciated, brutally beaten bodies of detainees," according to the  Yahoo News exclusive. Initially, Assad proclaimed that they were photoshopped--but was then presented with an analysis from the FBI upholding that the photos were, in fact, real. 

In the 34-minute interview, Assad also blamed the emergence of ISIS on the United States. 

In Assad’s account, Syria’s civil conflict — which American officials blame on his brutal suppression of protests during the Arab Spring demonstrations of 2011 — resulted from American and Saudi support for a rebellion that was hijacked by Islamic extremists. “So, who supported ISIS?” he asked. “We didn’t create it. You created it — the United States created all this mess. Who supported the rebels and called them ‘moderate rebels’ while they became ISIS and al-Nusra in Syria? We didn’t. So, it’s not a conspiracy. These are facts, this is reality.”
In relation to the new American administration, the Syrian president started off with the fact that he commends Trump's comments about fighting terrorism and finds them "promising." After further commending Trump's refugee policy, stating that there were "definitely" terrorists among the many refugees, he issued a warning to the U.S. 

Assad warned the Trump administration about placing new troops inside Syria to fight the Islamic State without his approval and rejected an idea advocated by Trump for “safe zones” in his country. The proposal, he said, was “not a realistic idea at all.” He did hold out hope for cooperation with the Trump administration, but only following “a rapprochement between the Russians and Americans.”


  Share this on Facebook (12)
  Tweet

  by Taboola Sponsored Links Promoted Stories
New Executive Order: Big Changes for Retirees
Money Morning
Vets could receive up to $42k with these VA benefits
LendingTree Mortgage Quotes
Teen Goes Missing In Aruba: But 10 Years Later, Police Uncover Truth
LifeDaily.com
20 Rare Historical Photos That Are Shocking
CelebFeed
by TaboolaMore From TownHall
WATCH: MSNBC Host Loses it Laughing at Hillary's Hypocrisy on Accepting Election Results
Tags:  NATIONAL SECURITY SYRIA BASHAR AL-ASSAD ISIS FAKE NEWS

Say What?! Donald Trump Would Have Won The Popular Vote If It Weren't For Gary Johnson
Matt Vespa|  
Oh, the Irony: Liberals Threaten to Homeschool Kids After DeVos Confirmed as Education Secretary
Leah Barkoukis|  
As The Left Wallows In 'Trump Is Hitler' Hysteria, IJ Review Asked Someone Who Lived Through Nazi Germany If There Are Similarities
Matt Vespa|  
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
Matt Vespa|  
ACLU Is Seeing A Trump-era Surge In Members and Donations

AP News|  

  
Recommended
Assad Jumps on 'Fake News' Bandwagon
Meleana Moore
A Democratic Congresswoman Just Met With Assad, Infuriating Republicans and Dems Alike
Leah Barkoukis
After Trump Executive Order, Syrian Christians Facing Genocide Sent Back to Damascus
Katie Pavlich
CARTOONS | JERRY HOLBERT
VIEW CARTOON 
Most Popular
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
Matt Vespa
Say What?! Donald Trump Would Have Won The Popular Vote If It Weren't For Gary Johnson
Matt Vespa
As The Left Wallows In 'Trump Is Hitler' Hysteria, IJ Review Asked Someone Who Lived Through Nazi Germany If There Are Similarities
Matt Vespa


Trending on Townhall Media
Left-Fascism: Free Speech Restrictions on Campus
TOWNHALL FINANCE
Quit Lying to Women About How to Survive Violent Attacks...Please.
BEARING ARMS
A good friend of Trump's just kneecapped Reince Priebus to the WaPost and on CNN
TWITCHY
George Soros: Top 10 Reasons He Is Dangerous | Human Events
HUMAN EVENTS
 
Watch: Ben Shapiro Takes Transgenderism And Pro-Abortion Arguments To The Woodshed
TOWNHALL

Chris Christie Gives Up On Being Called To Join The Trump Administration | RedState
REDSTATE
Video: SNL turns Kellyanne Conway into a crazed, sex-obsessed stalker - Hot Air
HOTAIR
 					
Columnists Political Cartoons Tipsheet  Election Results Radio News Video Slideshows Tags Finance Townhall Radio
About Townhall Advertise Privacy Policy Terms of Use Radio Stations Sitemap Jobs  Contact Us Newsletters Townhall Mobile iPhone/Android Apps
  
Townhall.com is the leading source for conservative news and political commentary and analysis.
Copyright © Townhall.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you


 `Assad Jumps on 'Fake News' Bandwagon - Meleana Moore
