
»
DonaldTrump · Trump · resist · Republicans · Resistance · Democrats · Community · GOP · Senate · Immigration · ElizabethWarren · muslimban · Politics · JeffSessions · election · MitchMcConnell · 2018 · Racism · WhiteHouse · Elections · Media · Environment · Education · VladimirPutin · TeaParty · KellyanneConway · Progressives · Election2018 · Vote · Obamacare
 
Sign up  Log in  Help  Join the list
NEWS
COMMUNITY
ACTION



GMOKE Blog Stream Groups Following Profile
DataRescue Boston Hackathon (and National Contact)

By gmoke  
2017/02/11 · 13:10
8 Comments (8 New)
 3

 
 RSS
TAGS
Boston
Computers
Data
Internet
memoryhole
MIT
Trump
infotech
Share this article
 
I publish a weekly listing of Energy (and Other) Events around Cambridge, MA as a listserv and a webpage (http://hubevents.blogspot.com) and came across this event, a hackathon to rescue Federal information in danger of being disappeared by Trmp and company.  Thought it might be of interest to this community, especially as I include a link to their ongoing efforts.


DataRescue Boston at MIT
Saturday, February 18
8:30 AM – 5:00 PM EST
MIT, Building 50, Walker Memorial, 142 Memorial Street, Cambridge
RSVP at https://www.eventbrite.com/e/datarescue-boston-at-mit-registration-31647096317

NOTE: The location of the event has moved to MIT Walker Memorial (Building 50) to accomodate more attendees!

DataRescue at MIT is a hackathon focused on identifying, downloading, processing, and mirroring federal research data at risk of being taken down or obscured by the current administration. The event is part of a larger DataRescue Boston movement, which includes events and collaborators at Harvard, Tufts, and Northeastern, which is in turn part of a larger national DataRescue movement organized by the Environmental Data & Governance Initiative and UPenn's Program in the Environmental Humanities.
People with all levels of technical background are welcome! There's a wide array of tasks including:

Browsing websites to identify data sets
Developing scripts and tools to scrape data
Processing and verifying data integrity
Uploading data to mirrors
Visualizing and documenting our efforts
Event attendance will be capped at 260 attendees, and we will admit everyone who has registered for a ticket (regular or overflow). However, once all tickets have sold out, we will not be admitting any additional attendees.

To learn about how to continue contributing after the event, check out the DataRescue Boston website (https://datarescue-boston.github.io), where we'll be posting guides and tools on how to stay involved.
POLL
2 votes Show Results
MORE DATA RESCUE?

yes
no
not yes
not no
neither yes nor no
both yes and no
don't understand the question?
none of the above
 
8 Comments (8 New)
Share this article
 3

 
8 COMMENTS
Comment Settings
( f ) Recommend ( r ) Reply
More hints...
( p ) Parent ( o ) Open/Close ( j ) Next Unread ( k ) Prev Unread
[new]  
gmoke Feb 11 · 01:10:52 PM
Tip Jar	
 4
[new]  
dear occupant Feb 11 · 01:28:11 PM
I came across a site called Motherlode that's doing the same thing, sorry I can't link I'm on my phone. He recently downloaded the USDA info on animal testing.

 1
[new]  
gmoke  dear occupant Feb 11 · 01:32:19 PM
Thanks.  There are climate change mirror sites in Canada that I’ve read about.  May all these people be talking to each other.

 3
[new]  
subtropolis  dear occupant Feb 11 · 01:33:38 PM
Memory Hole 2 has just put those up:

Deleted APHIS Annual Reports From Animal-Experimentation Facilities

On February 3, 2017, with absolutely no warning, the USDA's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) deleted its database of reports concerning animal welfare at zoos, circuses, aquariums, puppy mills, etc., as well as their archive of annual reports filed by facilities that experiment on animals. (They've left cumulative statistics for recent years, but all reports from individual facilities are gone.) This move instantly condemned an untold number of animals to suffering and death in secrecy.

In July 2016, I downloaded a number of big files from the APHIS website, containing thousands of annual reports filed by animal experimentation facilities from 1999 to 2007. These facilities include corporations, universities, military installations, and federal government labs. Those files were among the huge number of deletions.
 2
[new]  
dear occupant  subtropolis Feb 11 · 01:37:05 PM
Yes, that's the site, sorry.

Thanks for the correction subtropolis, too much incoming lately to keep it all straight.

 1
[new]  
subtropolis  dear occupant Feb 11 · 01:45:08 PM
It’s been quite insane keeping up with it all.

 1
[new]  
subtropolis Feb 11 · 01:42:31 PM
A lot of research data is being mirrored here in Canada.

In Canada, a move to protect data from Trump

On a Saturday morning in December, Henry Warwick trudged through the slushy streets of Toronto, Canada, to attend an event at the University of Toronto’s towering Robarts Library. He took the elevator to a room on the fourth floor where 150 people— mostly IT specialists, hackers, scholars, and activists—had assembled for the auspiciously titled “Guerrilla Archiving Event: Saving Environmental Data From Trump.”

For the rest of the day, the group would comb the Internet for key climate and environmental data from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). A giant computer program would then copy the information onto an independent server, where it will remain publicly accessible—and safe from potential government interference. Warwick, an American immigrant to Canada who teaches media studies at nearby Ryerson University, had grey hair pulled back in a ponytail and a somewhat disheveled, frenzied look. “Say Trump firewalls the EPA,” pulling reams of information from public access, Warwick said. He glanced up from his laptop, his blue eyes widening. “No one will have access to the data in these papers.”
Donate if you can:

Environmental Data and Governance Initiative

No Data. No Democracy.

The environmental data scientists and communities rely on is endangered under Trump. This is a crossroads where those who care about defending evidence-based environmental and climate policy must work together. When Donald Trump takes office on January 20, all bets are off. Your donation today will help to ensure safeguards are in place for this crucial data.

WHO WE ARE:  The Environmental Data and Governance Initiative (EDGI, envirodatagov.org) is an international network of academics and non-profits that believes in evidence-based policy making and public interest science.  EDGI partner, 314 Action (314action.org) is a nonprofit founded by a scientist and made up of members of the STEM community and pro-science advocates aiming to promote a pro-science agenda in Washington.
Even the Internet Archive is heading north:

Help Us Keep the Archive Free, Accessible, and Reader Private

So this year, we have set a new goal: to create a copy of Internet Archive’s digital collections in another country. We are building the Internet Archive of Canada because, to quote our friends at LOCKSS, “lots of copies keep stuff safe.” This project will cost millions. So this is the one time of the year I will ask you: please make a tax-deductible donation to help make sure the Internet Archive lasts forever. (FAQ on this effort).
We’ve got your back(up)!

 1
[new]  
raboof Feb 11 · 02:31:42 PM
Sold out; but thanks for publicizing this — I hope to be in on the next one. 

 0
© Kos Media, LLC
Site content may be used for any purpose without explicit permission unless otherwise specified. “Kos” and “Daily Kos” are registered trademarks of Kos Media, LLC.

Privacy Policy
Daily Kos
Front Page
Elections
Labor
Radio
Comics
RSS
About
Masthead
History
Writers
Terms
Rules of the Road
DMCA Copyright Notice
Endorsements
Privacy
Merchandise
Shirts
Advertising
Advertising Overview
Stats for advertisers
Contact
Media Inquiries
General Inquiries
Jobs
`DataRescue Boston Hackathon (and National Contact)
