
»
DonaldTrump · Trump · resist · Republicans · Resistance · Democrats · Community · GOP · Senate · Immigration · ElizabethWarren · muslimban · Politics · JeffSessions · election · MitchMcConnell · 2018 · Racism · WhiteHouse · Elections · Media · Environment · Education · TeaParty · VladimirPutin · KellyanneConway · Progressives · Obamacare · Vote · Election2018
 
Sign up  Log in  Help  Join the list
NEWS
COMMUNITY
ACTION



DAILY KOS ELECTIONS Stream Members Following Profile
Here's how you can volunteer to help Jon Ossoff win the special election for Tom Price's House seat

By David Nir  
2017/02/11 · 13:44
4 Comments (4 New)
 9
 3
 
Georgia Democrat Jon Ossoff
 RSS
REBLOGGED BY
Daily Kos Elections
Recommended
TAGS
GA-06
JonOssoff
Share this article
 
How fired up has Daily Kos been on behalf of Jon Ossoff, the Democrat running in the special election for Tom Price’s House seat in suburban Atlanta? Let me put it to you this way:


The all-time record-holder for most money received from this community for a single campaign was—you won’t be too surprised to learn—Elizabeth Warren, for whom we raised over $412,000 over the course of her successful bid for Senate in 2012.

Ossoff beat that record in one week.

That, of course, is not a reason to slack off. Quite the contrary: Now we have to work even harder to make sure Ossoff takes one of the top two slots in the April 18 primary, when all candidates from all parties run together on a single ballot. If not, we could wind up with two Republicans in the June runoff. That would be an absolutely unacceptable disaster, which is why we all need to keep giving.

But Ossoff needs more than just dollars. He needs warm bodies, too—to call supporters, knock on doors, host house parties, and do all the million and one things a campaign has to do in order to win.

The good news is that you can sign up to help right here. And you don’t have to live near Georgia’s 6th Congressional District to volunteer (though it’s great if you’re local!)—there are all kinds of activities, like virtual phonebanking, that you can do no matter where you are.

So please chip in a few bucks and sign up to volunteer for Ossoff today. We have the chance to shock the hell out of Trump and the GOP. Let’s seize it!

4 Comments (4 New)
Share this article
 9
 3
 
  by Taboola Sponsored Links FROM THE WEB
Can Meal Preparation Kits Save You Money? Watch What CBS Found
Home Chef
Here's why transferring a credit card balance to a 21-month 0% APR is a good plan
NextAdvisor
New Executive Order: Big Changes for Retirees
Money Morning
American Giant just created the first real leggings designed to replace your Jeans
WhoWhatWear | American Giant
4 COMMENTS
Comment Settings
( f ) Recommend ( r ) Reply
More hints...
( p ) Parent ( o ) Open/Close ( j ) Next Unread ( k ) Prev Unread
[new]  
David Nir Feb 11 · 01:44:08 PM
Tip Jar	
 11
[new]  
Prognosticator Feb 11 · 02:18:07 PM
Thx for the info. An Ossoff victory would be great.

 5
[new]  
quaoar Feb 11 · 02:33:39 PM
Sent a donation. We’ve got to challenge the GOP everywhere.

 3
[new]  
RandomNonviolence Feb 11 · 03:28:55 PM
Winning Tom Price’s seat in Georgia would send a very powerful message:

Republicans you better look out, there is a big blue wave coming at you. Maybe you should reconsider your plans for destroying ObamaCare, Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid and think twice about ignoring Trump’s blatant conflicts of interest.
So let’s win this and win it big.

 0
© Kos Media, LLC
Site content may be used for any purpose without explicit permission unless otherwise specified. “Kos” and “Daily Kos” are registered trademarks of Kos Media, LLC.

Privacy Policy
Daily Kos
Front Page
Elections
Labor
Radio
Comics
RSS
About
Masthead
History
Writers
Terms
Rules of the Road
DMCA Copyright Notice
Endorsements
Privacy
Merchandise
Shirts
Advertising
Advertising Overview
Stats for advertisers
Contact
Media Inquiries
General Inquiries
Jobs
`Here's how you can volunteer to help Jon Ossoff win the special election for Tom Price's House seat
