
»
DonaldTrump · Trump · resist · Republicans · Resistance · Democrats · Community · GOP · Senate · Immigration · ElizabethWarren · muslimban · Politics · JeffSessions · election · MitchMcConnell · 2018 · Racism · WhiteHouse · Elections · Media · Environment · Education · VladimirPutin · TeaParty · KellyanneConway · Progressives · Election2018 · Vote · Obamacare
 
Sign up  Log in  Help  Join the list
NEWS
COMMUNITY
ACTION



PDXBUCKEYE Blog Stream Groups Following Profile
Electronic Door to Door Canvassing Tools

By pdxbuckeye  
2017/02/11 · 11:54
5 Comments (5 New)
 1
 0
 
 RSS
TAGS
Campaigns
Canvassing
election
Technology
Tools
Share this article
 
I have a long history with canvassing operations back in my youth. I have engaged a little bit during one Obama campaign. I can tell you, when I ran canvassing and voter contact I still think the best system was setting up 3 by 5 cards with voter information and issues you talked about door to door, face 2 face.

Once you have the 3 by 5 card you just put it in the first file box, have volunteers pull a card, look at the issue areas noted on the card, pull the position papers from the campaign on those issues, stuff them in an envelope address it and mail it, and move the card to the next box (dated of course when the letter went out), then a staff member pulled the card and if it had been 3 or more weekdays called the voter to ask them if they received the letter a determine if they were a supporter or not and if they were a supporter, if they were a good donor candidate, volunteer candidate or neither.

That said, the analysis capabilities of punching your interactions into a tablet or smartphone can not be ignored. So I am curious with all the activist sorts here on Kos, is there a particular eCanvassing App or software package that anyone would recommend.

Something simple, clear and easy to use for new campaigners in state legislative districts is the focus. I am a bit of a data guy, but a lot of new candidates are not and just need some support tools that are easy to understand.

Curious what is out there.

Also, let me know what you like about them?

5 Comments (5 New)
Share this article
 1
 0
 
  by Taboola Sponsored Links FROM THE WEB
Here's why transferring a credit card balance to a 21-month 0% APR is a good plan
NextAdvisor
Can Meal Preparation Kits Save You Money? Watch What CBS Found
Home Chef
New Executive Order: Big Changes for Retirees
Money Morning
American Giant just created the first real leggings designed to replace your Jeans
WhoWhatWear | American Giant
5 COMMENTS
Comment Settings
( f ) Recommend ( r ) Reply
More hints...
( p ) Parent ( o ) Open/Close ( j ) Next Unread ( k ) Prev Unread
[new]  
pdxbuckeye Feb 11 · 11:54:28 AM
Tip Jar	
 2
[new]  
Richard Cranium Feb 11 · 12:22:41 PM
Off the top of my head:

Votebuilder from NGPVAN is the gold standard for the Dem party; mini-VAN is the mobile canvassing app, or third party tools such as Organizer can be integrated. Not cheap; access must be purchased from state Dem party.

L2 has a pretty sweet product — Votermapping — that integrates with other mobile canvassing products such as Organizer.  I actually like the data presentation in Votermapping better than Votebuilder, but L2 as a company works both sides of the political aisle.

There are more tools out there.  These are the big players.

 1
[new]  
pdxbuckeye  Richard Cranium Feb 11 · 12:25:57 PM
Cool thanks. I am looking at eCanvasser now. Like I said, I have my feet in both worlds.

I think there is something more...hmmm...organic about the old model, moving the 3 by 5 card through the process. I guess that is a good question to ask, do any of these tools set up a good workflow once an at door contact is made?

 1
[new]  
pdxbuckeye  Richard Cranium Feb 11 · 12:29:50 PM
looking at L2 now, this concerns me:

GroundGame™ is a groundbreaking mobile canvassing app battle tested in the 2010 and 2012 election cycles.
 0
[new]  
Richard Cranium  pdxbuckeye Feb 11 · 12:41:41 PM
I haven’t used GroundGame, so am not familiar with the currency of the mobile app.  L2’s base product (Votermapping) was upgraded in 2016 and integrates with Organizer.  It doesn’t have the end-to-end flexibility and complexity of Votebuilder, though.    If I was building a campaign from scratch, I’d buy into Votebuilder and use Organizer as the mobile app on top of the NGPVAN product.

Note that I’ve used all three of these products.  L2 will give you a two week demo key when you talk to one of their reps. Your local Dem party chairperson should be able to demo Votebuilder and MiniVan for you. I haven’t used eCanvasser, so can’t really compare or comment. 

 1
© Kos Media, LLC
Site content may be used for any purpose without explicit permission unless otherwise specified. “Kos” and “Daily Kos” are registered trademarks of Kos Media, LLC.

Privacy Policy
Daily Kos
Front Page
Elections
Labor
Radio
Comics
RSS
About
Masthead
History
Writers
Terms
Rules of the Road
DMCA Copyright Notice
Endorsements
Privacy
Merchandise
Shirts
Advertising
Advertising Overview
Stats for advertisers
Contact
Media Inquiries
General Inquiries
Jobs
`Electronic Door to Door Canvassing Tools
