MoveOn.org
     
An Update on MoveOn's Work to Stop Donald Trump and Elect Hillary Clinton
By Brian Stewart. Thursday, September 29 2016
MoveOn members are pouring everything we’ve got into defeating Donald Trump and his hateful politics and winning back the Senate. We’ve launched a massive, volunteer-powered voter turnout program, with dozens of organizers already on the ground in key states to leverage the volunteer efforts of thousands of MoveOn members.

Check out some photos of the first wave of MoveOn election organizers and vital volunteers across the country:


As we spring full-steam ahead, we wanted to share a birds-eye view of everything we’re doing to win in November—together. This is what you and MoveOn members like you have put in motion, with your ideas, donations, and activism. Our plan will only work if we all give it our all.
Here’s the current state of the race:

Trump has surged in the polls. Nate Silver’s “nowcast” has shown Trump surging to a greater than 40% chance of winning at different points in recent weeks. The race is just too dynamic and unpredictable to get comfortable. On top of that, key races that will determine control of the Senate—including Wisconsin, Ohio, North Carolina, New Hampshire, Illinois, Nevada, and Pennsylvania—are just too close to predict.

So what are we doing about it?

1. We’re running United Against Hate, a campaign to stop Trump from getting to the White House and to take on the broader forces of hatred, racism, Islamophobia, misogyny, and authoritarianism this his campaign is stoking in our democracy. This campaign was set in motion after 71% of MoveOn members who took part in a voter this spring—before Trump even secured the Republican nomination—identified defeating Trump and Trumpism as a uniquely important priority requiring an all-out effort.


This work is vital, not just to stop Trump—who we know would be a catastrophe as president—but to strongly challenge the hatefulness he’s stoking. Trump’s campaign has encouraged candidates like former KKK Grand Wizard David Duke, who’s now running for Senate in Louisiana. This type of divisive, bigoted, white supremacist candidate will become the norm if we don’t deal Trump a resounding defeat—and show that Republicans who are standing with him will also pay a price. That’s why we’ve taken the unprecedented step of launching a people-powered, short-term MoveOn Super PAC to bring in extra resources to meet the magnitude of this challenge.
2. We’re working to take back the Senate. We’re supporting a slate of candidates to help Democrats win control of the Senate, including Russ Feingold, Tammy Duckworth, Ted Strickland, Kamala Harris, Deborah Ross, Ann Kirkpatrick, Catherine Cortez Masto, Kathleen McGinty, Patty Judge, and Michael Bennet. They include leaders in shaping progressive foreign policy, fighting to get big money out of politics, working to end income inequality, and confronting climate change. Many of these candidates are in the key states that will determine the presidential race. If they win, we will have a large cohort of women, and an historic number of women of color, in the U.S. Senate—and take back the chamber from Republican control.

3. We’re working to elect three progressive champions to the House—Pramila Jayapal, Zephyr Teachout, and Mike Honda—whose voices we need on the national stage.

And here’s HOW we’re accomplishing our goals in this vital election:

1. We’ve launched a massive on-the-ground field effort—which includes the organizers and volunteers I mentioned earlier—modeled on the best strategies of our field program in past years and on the innovations of the Bernie Sanders campaign. When we’re fully staffed up, we will have deployed over 100 organizers to eight of the most important swing states for the presidential and Senate races. They’ll help support MoveOn members volunteering in those key states—so that together, we can knock on more than one million doors to talk to the voters who may mean the difference in the most critical races. That includes people of color, immigrants, single women, millennials, and enthusiastic Bernie supporters who haven’t decided whether to vote in November.


2. Our Video Lab is working every day to produce videos and conduct constant rapid-response press outreach from now through Election Day, generating videos that will reach an audience as big as that of a cable TV show. We’ve already gotten over 40 million views on videos that spread progressive ideas, including a video by Senator Elizabeth Warren on Trump’s tax returns. Upcoming videos will feature political and cultural celebrities, as well as voices of MoveOn members and voters across the country. This is people-powered progressive media, reaching an audience that includes many young people and others who may not be tuning in to more traditional news sources.
3. We’re supporting innovative voter engagement programs. We have invested in Color of Change PAC’s Black digital voter engagement program to turn out hundreds of thousands of Black voters in key states this election, and to build ongoing power to impact local, state, and national races in the future.

4. We’re holding other Republicans accountable for embracing and enabling Trump’s hateful politics. We’re campaigning every day to make sure that Trump can’t “pivot” away from his hateful comments and policies, and that all Republicans are forced to account for standing behind his bigotry. Recently, we worked with Common Defense PAC, a group of veterans, to call out Trump’s attacks against military veterans and their families—and delivered petitions to GOP senators who have refused to renounce Trump’s candidacy.

5. We’re using comedy, art, and culture. We’ve used unusual tactics, like launching a comedy project, Laughter Trumps Hate, to engage comedians in using their talent and skills to confront Trump’s politics of divisiveness and bullying. (We held comedy showcases in three cities and are circulating videos of the best performances online.) We organized an open letter from Artists United Against Hate, with over 100 actors, writers, and producers—including Shonda Rhimes, Mark Ruffalo, Lena Dunham, and Kerry Washington—to help demonstrate a cultural consensus against Trump and Trumpism. And there’s more to come.

MoveOn members know that elections and candidates are not, in themselves, the change we seek to make in the world. But they are an important vehicle to move us forward. And this election, in particular, is an inflection point—a moment when our country will choose whether to embrace retrograde politics of hatred and division or to create the conditions in which we can keep working toward a country where everyone can thrive.

SHARE ON FACEBOOK
This post was produced and paid for by MoveOn.org Political Action.

TOP POSTS+MORE 
This Sunday, Feb. 12 @ 8 p.m. ET/5 PT: Join the Ready to Resist National Strategy & Training Call #3
Posted 2 days ago

 
Tuesday, February 14: "Be Our Valentine!" Rallies
Posted 3 days ago

 
MoveOn to Senate Democrats: Shut Down Business, Block SCOTUS Nominee Until Trump’s Unconstitutional Agenda Is Stopped
Posted 2 weeks ago

 
The Resistance Is On the March. It’s Time For Senate Democrats To Catch Up.
Posted 2 weeks ago

 
MoveOn Condemns Trump’s Un-American Muslim Ban and Suspension of Refugee Program
Posted 2 weeks ago

+ STORIES
TAKE ACTION+MORE
Defend Public Education - Vote NO on Betsy DeVos for Education Secretary
If you support public education, investing in our local schools, and ending America's student debt crisis, demand the Senate vote "no" on Betsy DeVos for Education Secretary.

Sign the Petition
by Natalia Abrams, StudentDebtCrisis.org

Governor Bevin: Release Gynnya McMillen's Surveillance Video
Release the Lincoln Village Regional Juvenile Detention Center surveillance video and provide answers for the death of sixteen-year-old Gynnya McMillen.

Sign the Petition
by Greg Mitchell

Tell Congress: Stop Bannon's national security takeover
Congress must be a check on this dangerous politicization of our nation's security and immediately act to keep Steve Bannon off the National Security Council.

Sign the Petition
by Stephen Miles, Win Without War

Join the movement to stop Donald Trump!
We pledge ourselves to speak out in every way possible against the politics of hate, violence, and exclusion Donald Trump represents. Together, we're putting the media and political institutions …

Sign the Petition
by #StopHateDumpTrump

+ CAMPAIGNS
Join MoveOn
 Search
MoveOn.org®
START A PETITION MANAGE PETITIONS
ABOUT
ORGANIZATIONS
DONATE
STORE
PRESS
CONTACT
BLOG
SIGN UP
PRIVACY POLICY & TOS
CAREERS
A joint website of MoveOn.org Civic Action and MoveOn.org Political Action.

MoveOn.org Civic Action is a 501(c)(4) organization which primarily focuses on nonpartisan education and advocacy on important national issues. MoveOn.org Political Action is a federal political committee which primarily helps members elect candidates who reflect our values through a variety of activities aimed at influencing the outcome of the next election. MoveOn.org Political Action and MoveOn.org Civic Action are separate organizations.

Paid for in part by MoveOn.org Political Action. pol.moveon.org Not authorized by any candidate or candidate's committee.

Donate to MoveOn.org Civic Action Donate to MoveOn.org Political Action
FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK
FOLLOW US ON TWITTER
NEWSLETTER SIGNUP
`An Update on MoveOn’s Work to Stop Donald Trump and Elect Hillary Clinton | MoveOn.Org | Democracy In Action
