
»
DonaldTrump · Trump · resist · Republicans · Resistance · Democrats · Community · GOP · Senate · Immigration · ElizabethWarren · muslimban · Politics · JeffSessions · election · MitchMcConnell · 2018 · Racism · WhiteHouse · Elections · Media · Environment · Education · VladimirPutin · TeaParty · KellyanneConway · Progressives · Election2018 · Vote · Obamacare
 
Sign up  Log in  Help  Join the list
NEWS
COMMUNITY
ACTION



PDC Blog Stream Groups Following Profile
VT-Sen: Sanders & Schumer Call On Senate Dems To Lead Pro-ACA Rallies On February 25th

By poopdogcomedy  
2017/02/11 · 11:08
3 Comments (3 New)
 13

 
Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D. NY) Sen. Bernie Sanders (I. VT)
 RSS
REBLOGGED BY
The Democratic Wing of the Democratic Party
New York City
DK Fans of 90 for 90
50 State Strategy Project
Election Action Team It's Time
27 Dollars
The Political Revolution
Recommended
TAGS
2018
ChuckSchumer
Democrats
DonaldTrump
election
GOP
GOTV
HealthCare
Obamacare
Progressives
Republicans
Senate
TeaParty
Vermont
Vote
VT-Sen
AffordableCareAct
2018midterms
vote2018
Election2018
2018Election
BernieSanders
Share this article
 
Damn straight:

Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT) and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY) sent a letter Saturday, calling on Democratic Senators to lead rallies in their states in support of the Affordable Care Act later this month.
The letter, addressed to their Senate colleagues, encouraged a grassroots movement in support of the health care law, emphasizing how "critical" it is to seize the "momentum" of public opinion in support of the law and plan rallies for February 25th.

“The Republican Party’s plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act is in chaos,” the letter reads. “Public support for the law is at an all-time high, while the number of Americans supporting its immediate repeal without a replacement has dipped below 15 percent. It is critical we seize this momentum."
Click here to read the full letter.

There’s no reason for Democratic Senators to sit this out because they have the momentum on this issue:

A CNN/ORC poll from last month found more people viewed the law favorably as opposed to unfavorably, 49%-47%. In that poll, a majority would prefer the GOP to repeal parts of the law only if replacements can be enacted at the same time (55%). Fewer overall say they ought to repeal parts of the law as they can, regardless of their ability to replace those pieces (21%) and another 1-in-5 (22%) say they'd prefer the Republicans to abandon their plans to repeal the law entirely.
Conservative lawmakers in Utah, California, Tennessee and other states were met by citizens angered by their plans to repeal former President Barack Obama's signature health care law.
The protests are the latest in several wide scale responses against the President's policy proposals. Tens of thousands of women and men filled streets the day after Trump's inauguration at the Women's March on Washington and sister marches around the world. Thousands more filled airports the following weekend protesting a controversial executive order that critics said discriminated against refugees, immigrants and Muslims.
The lawmakers argued that with public support for Obamacare at an all-time high and that the number of Americans wanting to repeal it is below 15%, citing recent polling from the Washington Post and from Quinnnipiac.
"It is critical we seize this momentum," the letter said.
If you have a Democratic Senator, contact their offices and tell them you better see them front and center on February 25th. Click here.

3 Comments (3 New)
Share this article
 13

 
  by Taboola Sponsored Links FROM THE WEB
Here's why transferring a credit card balance to a 21-month 0% APR is a good plan
NextAdvisor
This Stray Dog Tried Everything To Get Adopted. Then One Day She Found A Woman’s Car
Scribol
Can Meal Preparation Kits Save You Money? Watch What CBS Found
Home Chef
New Executive Order: Big Changes for Retirees
Money Morning
3 COMMENTS
Comment Settings
( f ) Recommend ( r ) Reply
More hints...
( p ) Parent ( o ) Open/Close ( j ) Next Unread ( k ) Prev Unread
[new]  
poopdogcomedy Feb 11 · 11:08:22 AM
Tip Jar	
 11
[new]  
wasatch Feb 11 · 01:31:36 PM
Can states with 2 Dem Senators lend one of them to states with none?

No matter, we will rally on our own.

 2
[new]  
LamontCranston Feb 11 · 03:00:56 PM
Excellent idea.  Now let’s see just who has the political b*lls to do it.

 0
© Kos Media, LLC
Site content may be used for any purpose without explicit permission unless otherwise specified. “Kos” and “Daily Kos” are registered trademarks of Kos Media, LLC.

Privacy Policy
Daily Kos
Front Page
Elections
Labor
Radio
Comics
RSS
About
Masthead
History
Writers
Terms
Rules of the Road
DMCA Copyright Notice
Endorsements
Privacy
Merchandise
Shirts
Advertising
Advertising Overview
Stats for advertisers
Contact
Media Inquiries
General Inquiries
Jobs
`VT-Sen: Sanders & Schumer Call On Senate Dems To Lead Pro-ACA Rallies On February 25th
