
»
DonaldTrump · Trump · resist · Republicans · Resistance · Democrats · Community · GOP · Senate · Immigration · ElizabethWarren · muslimban · Politics · JeffSessions · election · MitchMcConnell · 2018 · Racism · WhiteHouse · Elections · Media · Environment · Education · VladimirPutin · TeaParty · KellyanneConway · Progressives · Election2018 · Vote · Obamacare
 
Sign up  Log in  Help  Join the list
NEWS
COMMUNITY
ACTION



COMMUNITY FUNDRAISERS Stream Members Following Profile
Street Prophets Sharing Saturday 02/11/2017

By bfitzinAR  
2017/02/11 · 12:59
11 Comments (11 New)
 7
 0
 
 RSS
REBLOGGED BY
Community Fundraisers
Street Prophets
TAGS
CommunityFundRaisers
StreetProphets
sharingsaturday
Share this article
 
Share.  It’s what we teach our kids.  Cookies, toys, whatever.  Share with your siblings, share with your friends.  That pizza’s big enough to share.  Share the couch while you’re watching TV.  Share the comic book — the print won’t fade if you both read it.  Well, if we want our kids to learn to share, we have to model it.  We must be the good examples of what we want them to do.  Share of our goods and space.

But there’s also sharing of knowledge.  At it’s most formal, sharing knowledge is teaching (which occurs many places, not just in schools).  Usually sharing of knowledge is very informal.  Someone has a question you know the answer to.  You share that knowledge.  Someone has an interest you know about, you come across a book or a link that pertains to that interest.  You lend the book or send the link to them.

The last is what Sharing Saturday is all about.  You know good-hearted people who not only want to help folks in need but are in a position to do so?  Or who have a large social network even if they are not in a position to help?  Share the fundraiser sites.  You know folks interested in art or jewelry or music who who want to support the actual artisans?  Or need some web design help to start their own businesses?  Share the Kos Katalogue links.  You have information that could help the person in need?  They’re Kossacks, kosmail them to share it.

We are only strong together and together requires connection.  Sharing information is being the connection.  Be the connection so we can be together and be strong.


In memory of — Patriotic Daily News Clearinghouse (Lin) PDNC — Linda left us before daylight 12/28/2016.  Her last concern was that her sister Laura (Kossack gabriella) not be burdened with medical bills.  Aji’s farewell:  Where the Water Meets the Light and 2thanks memorial: In Memory of our friend and Avila’s Celebrating the Life of Linda McClure — Donation Widget has Lin’s story by Laura — Linda McClure  $12,000 left to reach the goal. 

Aji  — home repossessed in the wake of the 2008 crash, now building one.  Serious setback:  Electrical cockup turned out much worse than originally thought.  Had to pull out the sheetrock and totally re-wire the house and reinstall/replace the sheetrock.  This has taken the money meant for plumbing, outside plastering, and part of the septic system.  Need donations and shares to make up for it.  (Lowe’s gift cards for plumbing fixtures and appliances here —  www.amazon.com… ) Recent diary www.dailykos.com… Please share wingssilverwork.com  and  www.youcaring.com…  links everywhere and daily if possible.  (Widget has the backstory)  $16,780 to reach the goal.

Arabian — Still unemployed, looking for work, has an interview scheduled.  Also looking at going back to school (pharmacy tech).  If anyone has information on grants or that sort of thing, please kosmail her.  Help extending the last of the unemployment — which runs out this week — is appreciated.  Her foot is “OK” but she needs to get back to her doctor for progress/prognosis. No widget but PayPal is arabean at att dot net

BFSkinner​​​ — 1st encouragement, 2nd money for medical bills.  Multiple/worsening health issues. Most recent diary —  BFSkinner: Sigh. Admitted Again. Gofundme link:  www.gofundme.com… and PayPal is houstonbfskinner at netscape dot net.  Let him know he’s not alone, then donate if you can.

Dem — Truck went ka-plooey two days after the election, still recovering from various fractured leg bones,  underemployed.  Disastrous relationship finally broke up last month — after the person swept their joint bank account AND overcharged their joint credit card.  Needs help — food and Rx first, then with deposits for new lodgings, utilities, etc.  San Antonio, TX area — if you know of helping services please kosmail him.  No widget, PayPal robertallenproctor4 at gmail dot com.  

gtghawaii — survivor of multiple cancers, starting in 2009, disabled since 2013, long-term disability policy (annual approval) surprise denial this month after 4 years of paying (denial being appealed), Also applied for Social Security Disability but SSDI is not responding.   Needs to start on March rent as the lease runs until April.  PayPal.me/Scarpio and Stacy's Medical Fund  — $2200 to meet goal. 

jtg — (home) cancer survivor, late father’s caregiver for 15 years.  Substitute teacher since mid-October.  Working steadily, but schools were closed Thanksgiving and December holiday weeks so he needs help for Feb. www.gofundme.com/...  • PAYPAL   Kos Katalogue vendor (see links below) and augments his substitute teaching with graphic art sales. 

jtg — (car) Engine’s fine, needs transmission replaced. His area has minimal mass transit.  He needs the car to work at his substitute teaching jobs as well as his local Dem Party volunteer work (he’s secretary).  New transmission is $4K (parts and labor), down payment has been raised, $2800 to go.  Diary www.dailykos.com… gofundme www.gofundme.com/...   • PayPal 

Rock Creek Parker/Susan Hogarth — caregiver for her late mother for years, bookseller in the Kos Katalogue to augment her $322 monthly SocSec.  Currently in process of selling the house so new book orders on hold. Would appreciate Paypal is rockcreekparker at gmail dot com  help for her home-prep costs & utilities (Albuquerque, NM — need heat and light to show the house).

snoopydawg — Work injury — Workers Comp denied the claim for 5 years.  Belated surgery failed so permanent damage, unable to work and in constant pain.  Social Security Disability augmented with photography sales (in Kos Katalogue), has fallen behind on the mortgage and is in the process of refinancing but needs help to catch up.  Companion animals also needed help.  Charlie, the younger, was damaged on a fence (90 stitches) and Abby, the elder, has arthritis and some muscle degeneration and needs meds.  Being the kind of loving caring person she is, she asked for the dogs first.  YouCaring Charlie & Abby's vet bills (and the mortgage) Original goal $2,500 (mortgage) + $500 (vet bills) = $3,000.  Vet portion met, $1650 to go on mortgage refinance.  $500 match in progress.

Vetwife’s friend Brother Robert — 60, free-lance handy man, unpaid minister, working on voting rights, visiting folks in jail, and doing an unfunded one-man meals on wheels for community folks.  Vetwife will forward donations. PayPal amandakato at msn dot com 

jibrille — update, chemo is “kicking her butt” and would appreciate the Good Thought.
Puddytat (just Dx’d with Hodgkin’s) — additional health complications so computer on hold but could use lots of emotional support —  Community Quilt for Puddytat Round 2 
michelewin’s friend Kay — Sacramento area, 70s, widow, homeless living out of her truck which didn’t pass inspection so is mostly sitting in a parking lot.  She gave permission to give out phone number.  916.559.0908   2/5/17 Update: per basket:  Kay situation totally in flux — her cats are complicating the lodging problem.  Will update as I hear back.


Valentine’s Day is Tuesday.  Our dollar vote is listened to even when our ballot vote isn’t so it’s good to cast that dollar vote to help the Kossack and other small business communities.


Small Business is Good.
From Pootie Pads to wearable and frameable designs to jewelry to used/rare books to decluttering services — gifts from the heart are easy to find in the Kos Katalogue.

KOSSACK ARTISANS/VENDORS — NO to CORPORATE SMISH/YES to KOS BUSINESSES

asterkitty — to assist with moving costs, special painting sale is here. Big discounts:  alexalev.com… 

edrie — jewelry — Edrie's Shop

elenacarlena —original cartoons to hang, wear, or drink from — www.zazzle.com…  www.teepublic.com… or kosmail to commission a cartoon.

jan4insight — Zibbet sales www.zibbet.com…   www.teepublic.com/... , www.zazzle.com… — artwork and handcrafted gifts - provide living expenses for Jan and her diabetic pootie.
jtg — rrfjtg.wordpress.com and www.teepublic.com/... and fineartamerica.com/...
michelewin — jewelry — unique jewelry by michele
Sara R & Winglion — Pootie Pads — pootiepad.com… (also lavender/thyme for woozles).
snoopydawg — beautiful photography — 10% off sale www.midlifeartistsunlimited.org/…  (For donations for vet bills and mortgage refinance, see above.)
Wings — NDN Silver wingssilverwork.com , Aji’s & Wings’ sole income source. Hover on Galleries, then on Silverwork or Photography or Other Artists for click-links to see breathtaking work. Use Contact for email to commission or purchase.  (For donations to help build the house, see above.)

Update: Rock Creek Parker — temporarily closed until house is sold.  Back in business soon, we hope.  (For donations for sale prep, see above.)

Kos Katalogue.  2016 Kos Katalogue is OPEN FOR YEAR-ROUND BIZNESS.
Departments of the 2016-17 Kos Katalog — mettle fatigue

Arts & Craftwork  
Books, Cookbooks, Magazines, Bookshops & Publishing 
Childrens', Craft Supplies, & Yarn: Knit, Crochet, Weaving 
Clothing & Jewelry 
Painting, Drawing, Digital Art, Photography, Sculpture
Food-Drink-Garden & House-Home & Pet 
 Service & Stationary Depts w/ Nasty Woman Merchandise Poll
Software, Web Design, Music (CDs, DVDs) and Misc. Depts


snoopydawg — (refinance mortgage)  www.youcaring.com… 

Aji —  (building a home) www.youcaring.com…

jtg — (car repair) www.gofundme.com… and (help with Jan. bills) — www.gofundme.com/... 

Was Linda (PDNC) now Laura (gabriella) — (Linda’s medical bills)   www.youcaring.com/... 

​bfskinner — (medical bills) www.gofundme.com/...

gtghawaii —   Stacy's Medical Fund


11 Comments (11 New)
Share this article
 7
 0
 
  by Taboola Sponsored Links FROM THE WEB
Here's why transferring a credit card balance to a 21-month 0% APR is a good plan
NextAdvisor
Seattle: This Meal Service is Cheaper Than Your Local Store
Home Chef
New Executive Order: Big Changes for Retirees
Money Morning
The Sweatshirt Designed by an Apple Engineer That's Bringing Manufacturing Back to America
Business Insider | American Giant
11 COMMENTS
Comment Settings
( f ) Recommend ( r ) Reply
More hints...
( p ) Parent ( o ) Open/Close ( j ) Next Unread ( k ) Prev Unread
[new]  
bfitzinAR Feb 11 · 12:59:40 PM
Tip Jar	
 6
[new]  
Ojibwa Feb 11 · 01:17:25 PM
Okay, I’m go to share what might be considered a small bit of knowledge: Origins of Language: Language Death

Stop by if you get a chance.

 5
[new]  
bfitzinAR  Ojibwa Feb 11 · 01:29:52 PM
Excellent diary — points out how much knowledge we lose when we lose a language and the culture that used it.  And how fast we are currently losing languages.

 5
[new]  
Wordsinthewind Feb 11 · 01:20:20 PM
it’s important to cultivate an attitude of generosity, it astonishes me that so many people find that such an uphill climb. You’re absolutely right that the best way to teach it is to model it, I’m glad there were folks in my life when I was young to teach me that.

 4
[new]  
bfitzinAR  Wordsinthewind Feb 11 · 01:28:41 PM
{{{Wordsinthewind}}} — I know.  I don’t know what makes the difference — people who give and people who refuse to give even if they aren’t trying to take from those in need.  I grew up with the give attitude.  I hurts when I can’t.  I have a sibling who can be generous — but only to those who are “worthy” by her definition of worthy.  I don’t understand it — we have the same mom who modeled the same attitude towards giving.  I live down the street from people who find excuses as to why nobody is worthy.  I just don’t understand it.

 3
[new]  
Wordsinthewind  bfitzinAR Feb 11 · 01:33:29 PM
there are so many people these days who find it acceptable to only think of themselves, incapable of generosity. To my view they live such pinched unpleasant lives no matter what material accumulation they’ve managed. Having to live like that is ultimately why they don’t need to believe in hell. I try to have generous thoughts for the scales to fall from their eyes and not condemn such smallness. Sometimes I succeed.

 3
[new]  
bfitzinAR  Wordsinthewind Feb 11 · 01:38:43 PM
The certainly have small souls — hopefully they will have a “redemption moment” before they leave this life.  For their sakes.  There just seem to be people who have helping DNA, no matter their background, and those who don’t.  The latter are rather noisy and nasty about it.  The former usually do their “good deeds” as quietly as they can.  Take a look at the donors on the fundraising sites — see how many of them, especially the larger amounts, are anonymous.  And in fact, most of the giving folks only “go public” with a project if that will bring more funds than they personally can give.

 3
[new]  
BMScott  bfitzinAR Feb 11 · 01:40:05 PM
My siblings and I saw a closely related attitude. When I was little we were much more likely to be the recipients than the givers, but I think that all of us kids picked up the idea of being helpful.

We also picked up the idea that people are people. It’s no accident that my father was well-liked by the non-academic staff at the college where he taught — not just secretaries, but maintenance and grounds staff as well. (One of the things that I like about the SCA is that it seems to encourage that attitude.)

 3
[new]  
bfitzinAR  BMScott Feb 11 · 01:48:04 PM
When I was little I was the recipient.  And what that taught me was that “big” people give.  And as I wanted to be “big”… :)

One of the best loved faculty by almost everybody at my university was basically hounded out of the place by a former Chair about whom probably the less said the better.  But I’ll say it anyway — he had the attitude of a “90-Day Wonder” — still does but thank heavens is no longer the Chair.  (And the SCA by saying “we’re all peers” does kind of encourage that attitude.)

 3
[new]  
marsanges Feb 11 · 03:05:42 PM
sad day it was for me .. found a friend, lost a friend .. (not all in a day of course but the stamp’s on it). So, better wishes for people here. 

 4
[new]  
bfitzinAR  marsanges Feb 11 · 03:39:04 PM
{{{marsanges}}} — Healing Energy and Peace.

 0
[new]  
michelewln Feb 11 · 03:17:13 PM
I need someone to take tomorrow’s Sunday Coffee Hour. Reid is in the hospital with pneumonia, colitis, and c.diff. The later was most likely caused by Infectious Disease who gave him multiple antibiotics when he never had an infection. Right now I’m too stressed to even think of a topic for tomorrow other than talk me out of strangling someone. Sigh!

 3
© Kos Media, LLC
Site content may be used for any purpose without explicit permission unless otherwise specified. “Kos” and “Daily Kos” are registered trademarks of Kos Media, LLC.

Privacy Policy
Daily Kos
Front Page
Elections
Labor
Radio
Comics
RSS
About
Masthead
History
Writers
Terms
Rules of the Road
DMCA Copyright Notice
Endorsements
Privacy
Merchandise
Shirts
Advertising
Advertising Overview
Stats for advertisers
Contact
Media Inquiries
General Inquiries
Jobs
`Street Prophets Sharing Saturday 02/11/2017
