
»
DonaldTrump · Trump · resist · Republicans · Resistance · Democrats · Community · GOP · Senate · Immigration · ElizabethWarren · muslimban · Politics · JeffSessions · election · MitchMcConnell · 2018 · Racism · WhiteHouse · Elections · Media · Environment · Education · VladimirPutin · TeaParty · KellyanneConway · Progressives · Election2018 · Vote · Obamacare
 
Sign up  Log in  Help  Join the list
NEWS
COMMUNITY
ACTION



TOMBROCK Blog Stream Groups Following Profile
Tiny Victories, Big Strides Forward. Making the Little Things Count.

By TomBrock  
2017/02/11 · 13:16
1 Comment (1 New)
 6

 
Positive conversations with concerned Democrats
 RSS
REBLOGGED BY
Virginia Kos
Recommended
TAGS
Education
Elections
Environment
Equality
Positive
Progressive
Virginia
Share this article
 
Running for office isn’t easy. I knew that when I put my hat in the ring a few months ago to run for the House of Delegates, and I’m reminded again every time I sit down to make fundraising calls or head down the street canvassing. But there are moments that make it all worth it.

I held an informal meet and greet this morning at a coffee shop near my house this morning. It wasn’t a huge event, I just sent out the word by email and Facebook post that I would be there for a couple hours if anyone wanted to stop by and talk. We ended up with more than a dozen folks - some of whom stayed for just a few minutes, others the entire time. Conversation ranged from the environment to public education to strategies for rebuilding economically depressed neighborhoods.

To me, this is exactly how local politics should work. People sitting around on the front porch, in the living room, or at a coffee shop talking about the issues that matter. We didn’t just complain either, we found solutions and began planning how to organize and achieve them. It was so gratifying to have so many people come out to engage with the democratic process.

I know many of you are fired up and looking for ways to take action. If your local officials aren’t giving you the right representation, I would really encourage you to seriously consider running. I’ve found it to be an amazing way to both connect with and give back to your community.

This campaign is about people and I want to reach every like-minded Democrat in my district. To do that we need help from folks like you. If you want to be a part of the resistance in Virginia, please donate today. I am committed to being a voice for working families in the Virginia General Assembly. 

1 Comment (1 New)
Share this article
 6

 
1 COMMENT
Comment Settings
( f ) Recommend ( r ) Reply
More hints...
( p ) Parent ( o ) Open/Close ( j ) Next Unread ( k ) Prev Unread
[new]  
TomBrock Feb 11 · 01:16:36 PM
Tip Jar	
 3
© Kos Media, LLC
Site content may be used for any purpose without explicit permission unless otherwise specified. “Kos” and “Daily Kos” are registered trademarks of Kos Media, LLC.

Privacy Policy
Daily Kos
Front Page
Elections
Labor
Radio
Comics
RSS
About
Masthead
History
Writers
Terms
Rules of the Road
DMCA Copyright Notice
Endorsements
Privacy
Merchandise
Shirts
Advertising
Advertising Overview
Stats for advertisers
Contact
Media Inquiries
General Inquiries
Jobs
`Tiny Victories, Big Strides Forward. Making the Little Things Count.
