
»
DonaldTrump · Trump · resist · Republicans · Resistance · Democrats · Community · GOP · Senate · Immigration · ElizabethWarren · muslimban · Politics · JeffSessions · election · MitchMcConnell · 2018 · Racism · WhiteHouse · Elections · Media · Environment · Education · VladimirPutin · TeaParty · KellyanneConway · Progressives · Election2018 · Vote · Obamacare
 
Sign up  Log in  Help  Join the list
NEWS
COMMUNITY
ACTION



BUSTER40004 Blog Stream Groups Following Profile
Continuing Making Friends

By Buster40004  
2017/02/11 · 11:55
1 Comment (1 New)
 2

 
 RSS
REBLOGGED BY
Kossack Air Force
TAGS
Aviation
Trump
Share this article
 
Kathryns report an aviation web site,  reported today that Emirates says flight was delayed after Delta Airlines refused them a spare part. As Faux News says, "We report, you decide."

DUBAI, Feb 9 Emirates has accused Delta Air Lines of harming its operations by refusing it a spare part for its aircraft in the United States, stoking tensions between U.S. and Gulf carriers feuding over state subsidies.

    The Emirates flight from Seattle was delayed by more than six hours on Feb. 2, while it searched for the minor hydraulic part that needed replacing, an Emirates spokeswoman said.

    Delta confirmed the incident, but said "this was the last spare part of its kind in our Seattle inventory and, according to policy, was kept on hand to ensure coverage for Delta's own operation".

    "Having the right spare parts in the right places and in ample quantity is critical to ensuring a reliable airline operation for our customers," Delta spokesman Michael Thomas said in emailed comments.

    The hydraulic system part was initially fitted to the Emirates Boeing 777 by local engineers who had obtained the part from Delta, the Emirates spokeswoman said.

    However, at the request of a "senior manager" at Delta's headquarters in Atlanta the part was removed and returned just before passengers boarded resulting in a further delay, the spokeswoman said.

    "It is sad, in our view, that any airline would deny such standard, technical assistance to another carrier based on orders from headquarters that had nothing to do with maintenance or cost but seem clearly to have been intended to inflict harm on the airline and its customers," the Emirates spokeswoman said.

    An Emirates employee in Seattle offered a credit card to pay for the part, which it said was worth $300, but Delta refused, according to the spokeswoman.
Delta is one of three U.S. carriers leading calls for the White House to limit the growth of major Gulf airlines.

1 Comment (1 New)
Share this article
 2

 
  by Taboola Sponsored Links FROM THE WEB
Here's why transferring a credit card balance to a 21-month 0% APR is a good plan
NextAdvisor
Seattle: This Meal Service is Cheaper Than Your Local Store
Home Chef
New Executive Order: Big Changes for Retirees
Money Morning
American Giant just created the first real leggings designed to replace your Jeans
WhoWhatWear | American Giant
1 COMMENT
Comment Settings
( f ) Recommend ( r ) Reply
More hints...
( p ) Parent ( o ) Open/Close ( j ) Next Unread ( k ) Prev Unread
[new]  
Buster40004 Feb 11 · 11:55:46 AM
Tip Jar	
 1
© Kos Media, LLC
Site content may be used for any purpose without explicit permission unless otherwise specified. “Kos” and “Daily Kos” are registered trademarks of Kos Media, LLC.

Privacy Policy
Daily Kos
Front Page
Elections
Labor
Radio
Comics
RSS
About
Masthead
History
Writers
Terms
Rules of the Road
DMCA Copyright Notice
Endorsements
Privacy
Merchandise
Shirts
Advertising
Advertising Overview
Stats for advertisers
Contact
Media Inquiries
General Inquiries
Jobs
`Continuing Making Friends
