Sign in / Sign up
HOMECLIMATEPOLITICSCONFLICTS OF INTERESTHEALTH CAREIMMIGRATIONFEATURESVIDEORESIST

Judd Legum
Editor-In-Chief, ThinkProgress
Dec 15, 2016
Trump promised a press conference on his business conflicts. Instead he sent this tweet.
Happily tweeting himself over a cliff.


A model of the Old Post Office, now Trump International Hotel, is visible as news photographers take photos of a model of the White House on a giant planning map during a media tour highlighting inaugural preparations being made by the Joint Task Force-National Capital Region for military and civilian planners, Wednesday, Dec. 14, 2016, at the DC Armory in Washington. CREDIT: AP Photo/Andrew Harnik

In November, Trump promised a press conference on December 15 to explain how he was going to deal with the conflict of interests presented by his ownership of a multi-national business.
Every modern president has effectively eliminated financial conflicts of interest either by placing their assets in a blind trust, as George W. Bush did, or divesting and placing the assets in index funds and treasury bonds, as Barack Obama did.
Jimmy Carter famously gave up his peanut farm, placing it in a blind trust, before assuming the presidency. Republicans in Congress promptly spent six months investigating him — and the conflicts his peanut farm might present — anyway.
Trump’s conflicts are much more dire. His ownership of hotels and office buildings will put him on the receiving end of a stream of payments from foreign governments. Legal experts from both parties believe this will result in Trump violating the Constitution, which prohibits such payments, on his first day in office.

It is December 15, but there will be no press conference. Trump announced earlier this week that he was postponing the press conference indefinitely. He did reveal that the business would be run by his two sons, Eric and Don Jr., both members of his transition team.


Trump’s promise to do “no new deals” is meaningless, both legally and practically. In order to operate the business, Don Jr. and Eric will need to do new deals. For example, hundreds of millions of dollars in debt will come due during the Trump presidency. There is no visibility, moreover, into how many deals are in the pipeline. There are disputed reports, for example, that Trump used his call with the president of Argentina to advance a long-stalled deal in Buenos Aires. It is not a “new” deal, but it is definitely a conflict.
The promise of “no new deals” also does not resolve Trump’s constitutional issues. He will still be receiving payments from foreign governments.
Instead of the promised press conference, Trump sent this tweet.

It is not a complicated issue for Trump because he doesn’t plan on doing anything about it.
He seems poised to maintain full ownership over his businesses while letting his sons, who are also his top political advisers, manage day-to-day affairs. This, according to legal scholars, will ultimately result in an impeachable offense.
The General Services Agency also said that, if Trump does not divest his Washington, D.C. hotel prior to inauguration, he will be in breach of his lease.
Trump is correct: it is not “hard” to simply ignore these issues and count on a complacent Congress to give him a free pass.
Whether this will be a successful political and legal strategy, however, is an open question.

Politics2016 ElectionDonald TrumpConflicts Of Interest
89
13
Follow

Judd Legum
Editor-In-Chief, ThinkProgress
Follow

ThinkProgress
Moving news forward.
Responses
Show all responses

Never miss a story from ThinkProgress
GET UPDATES`Trump promised a press conference on his business conflicts. Instead he sent this tweet.
