
»
DonaldTrump · Trump · resist · Resistance · Republicans · Democrats · Community · GOP · Senate · Immigration · ElizabethWarren · muslimban · Politics · JeffSessions · election · MitchMcConnell · 2018 · Racism · WhiteHouse · Elections · Media · Environment · Education · VladimirPutin · TeaParty · KellyanneConway · Progressives · Election2018 · Vote · Obamacare
 
Sign up  Log in  Help  Join the list
NEWS
COMMUNITY
ACTION



BUCKNACKT Blog Stream Groups Following Profile
In Real Bowling Green Massacre, a White Supremacist Planned Attack Against African Americans

By Bucknackt  
2017/02/11 · 13:04
4 Comments (4 New)
 2
 1
 RSS
TAGS
Antisemitism
domesticterrorism
Fascist
Islamophobia
NeoNazi
Racism
WhiteSupremacist
RichardSchmidt
bowlinggreenmassacre
drumpftrump-pence
kellyaneconway
robertdoggart
vinlanders
Share this article
 
 
In Real Bowling Green Massacre, a White Supremacist Planned Attack Against African Americans & Jews & See the Signs of Terror: Journalists Call on Trump to Condemn White Supremacist-Led Attacks & Plots

HERE'S the real (planned but prevented) Bowling Green massacre kellyane conway should have been talking about, but didn't, because it was planned by a white American nazi. She didn't talk about it because the drumpf/trump-pence administration will not turn on the fascist, neo nazi, right wing fanatics that rallied to his campaign during the 2016 presidential election like the brown shirts rallied to hitler in the early 1930's. But there will not be any night of the long knives for the drumpf/trump-pence brown shirts, he will keep them in reserve, out of sight and out of the news, because he will need them if he becomes bold enough to try to impose dictatorial rule. As noted in this report from +Democracy Now! "In Quebec City, when you had that, you had a man who, again, self-professed—at least a supporter of Trump online, a man who had anti-immigrant views, walked into a mosque, opened fire. When he was done, six Muslims were killed, scores wounded. Donald Trump does not one tweet about that. He tweets more about Nordstrom’s than he tweets about these people being killed by a terrorist. Yet he will tweet about a man in Paris who takes a machete out and yells "Allahu Akbar," and he tweets, "Radical Islam. France is afraid again." Donald Trump—you know, I’ve been in the Middle East countless times. I’ve seen what Third World dictators do, how they gin up fear and try to create sectarian divides. Donald Trump is mimicking that." This is not the only recent domestic terrorist attack planned by white supremacist and stopped by US law enforcement. But these incidents are not discussed by the drumpf/trump white house, they were not included in the terrorist incident list released by the administration. The drumpf/trump-pence made their attitude regarding the threat of US domestic terrorism by white supremacist through the comments of a DOJ official. Again, from this Democracy Now! report " I did have a meeting recently where I was at, and I can’t say the name of the person at DOJ. That was the rules. And I said, "You know, Loretta Lynch told us that she stands with the Muslim community. Do you stand with us?" And he said—he’s a high-ranking political appointee by Trump—he goes, "We don’t stand with anyone. We stand with the law."

4 Comments (4 New)
Share this article
 2
 1
 
  by Taboola Sponsored Links FROM THE WEB
Here's why transferring a credit card balance to a 21-month 0% APR is a good plan
NextAdvisor
Seattle: This Meal Service is Cheaper Than Your Local Store
Home Chef
New Executive Order: Big Changes for Retirees
Money Morning
The Sweatshirt Designed by an Apple Engineer That's Bringing Manufacturing Back to America
Business Insider | American Giant
4 COMMENTS
Comment Settings
( f ) Recommend ( r ) Reply
More hints...
( p ) Parent ( o ) Open/Close ( j ) Next Unread ( k ) Prev Unread
[new]  
Bucknackt Feb 11 · 01:04:46 PM
Tip Jar	
 3
[new]  
bigtimecynic Feb 11 · 01:24:54 PM
If a massacre was prevented then it wasn't real. That's why Conway was ridiculed. Trying to use the same type of framing by won't work for our side either. Repeat after me; there was no massacre.

 1
[new]  
Meteor Blades Feb 11 · 02:29:39 PM
In the real Bowling Green Massacre, in 1643 New Amsterdam, the Dutch murdered 110 Lenape Indian refugees at the tip of Manhattan—women, men, children. Some toddler were thrown in the water and when their parents dove in seeking to save them, the Dutch wouldn’t let them get out of the water and parents and children drowned together.

 1
[new]  
aliberaldoseofskepticism  Meteor Blades Feb 11 · 02:37:35 PM
I was about ready to say…

 0
© Kos Media, LLC
Site content may be used for any purpose without explicit permission unless otherwise specified. “Kos” and “Daily Kos” are registered trademarks of Kos Media, LLC.

Privacy Policy
Daily Kos
Front Page
Elections
Labor
Radio
Comics
RSS
About
Masthead
History
Writers
Terms
Rules of the Road
DMCA Copyright Notice
Endorsements
Privacy
Merchandise
Shirts
Advertising
Advertising Overview
Stats for advertisers
Contact
Media Inquiries
General Inquiries
Jobs
`In Real Bowling Green Massacre, a White Supremacist Planned Attack Against African Americans
