
»
DonaldTrump · Trump · resist · Republicans · Resistance · Democrats · Community · GOP · Senate · Immigration · ElizabethWarren · muslimban · Politics · JeffSessions · election · MitchMcConnell · 2018 · Racism · WhiteHouse · Elections · Media · Environment · Education · TeaParty · VladimirPutin · KellyanneConway · Progressives · Obamacare · Vote · Election2018
 
Sign up  Log in  Help  Join the list
NEWS
COMMUNITY
ACTION



ANEGAHBAN Blog Stream Groups Following Profile
East TN Indivisible group humiliates Rep. John Duncan (Weasel-Knoxville) in the classiest fashion

By anegahban  
2017/02/11 · 13:04
19 Comments (19 New)
 152
 28
 
 RSS
REBLOGGED BY
Three Star Kossacks
Recommended
TAGS
indivisible
Recommended
The indivisible movement is marching strong even here in deep red East TN. A few weeks ago, Republican House member John Duncan who’s been in that seat since 1988 (and his father had it before then) refused to host a town hall citing kooks and sore losers as his rationale for being a weasel.

In response, the folks at Indivisible didn’t sit on their hands and let him get away with this. They organized a peaceful protest at Duncan’s office which they dubbed Kookfest. The local media was all over it and it got coverage on all the local news outlets.

Duncan did have a good reason for not attending as his brother in law had just passed after a battle with ALS. So how did the good folks at Indivisible respond? They used their platform to raise money for ALS on his behalf and again received great local press for their classy efforts. I know it was genuine but honestly, this is an amazing troll of a longtime right wing kook.

Here is the link to the local news broadcast of this event:

www.wbir.com/...

I know this is not as large a showing as some of the other Indivisible events but just know that even here in deep red country, the resistance is picking up steam. In solidarity!

19 Comments (19 New)
Share this article
 152
 28
 
19 COMMENTS
Comment Settings
( f ) Recommend ( r ) Reply
More hints...
( p ) Parent ( o ) Open/Close ( j ) Next Unread ( k ) Prev Unread
© Kos Media, LLC
Site content may be used for any purpose without explicit permission unless otherwise specified. “Kos” and “Daily Kos” are registered trademarks of Kos Media, LLC.

Privacy Policy
Daily Kos
Front Page
Elections
Labor
Radio
Comics
RSS
About
Masthead
History
Writers
Terms
Rules of the Road
DMCA Copyright Notice
Endorsements
Privacy
Merchandise
Shirts
Advertising
Advertising Overview
Stats for advertisers
Contact
Media Inquiries
General Inquiries
Jobs
`East TN Indivisible group humiliates Rep. John Duncan (Weasel-Knoxville) in the classiest fashion
