
  
Home Page U.S. & World  | Regional
Politics
Opinions
Sports
Local
National
World
Business
Tech
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Crosswords
Video
Photography
Washington Post Live
Live Chats
Real Estate
Cars
Jobs
Classifieds
Partners
WP BrandStudio
washingtonpost.com
1996-2017 The Washington Post
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Submissions and Discussion Policy
RSS Terms of Service
Ad Choices
The Fix
That time Paul Ryan gave a succinct, near-perfect response to Trump’s call to ban Muslims
By Amber Phillips 
January 28
Paul Ryan condemns Trump's Muslim ban  Play Video1:31
Speaker of the House Paul Ryan says the ban proposed by Donald Trump "is not what this country stands for." (AP)
“This is not conservatism.”

In just four words, House Speaker Paul D. Ryan made clear in December 2015 that then-candidate Donald Trump's suggestion to temporarily ban Muslims from entering the United States has no place in the Republican Party.

A little more than a year later, President Trump has signed an executive order temporarily halting admission of all refugees — with an indefinite pause on Syrian refugees — and a pause on all visitors from seven predominantly Muslim countries for 120 days. Trump has promised priority for Christians. The order is meant to give U.S. agencies more time to come up with a more stringent vetting system.

Ryan (R-Wis.) appears to have a completely different perspective on Trump's executive order. Here's what he said in a statement released Friday (my emphasis added in bold):

Our number one responsibility is to protect the homeland. We are a compassionate nation, and I support the refugee resettlement program, but it’s time to reevaluate and strengthen the visa vetting process. This is why we passed bipartisan legislation in the wake of the Paris attacks to pause the intake of refugees. President Trump is right to make sure we are doing everything possible to know exactly who is entering our country.

Some recent historical context here: When Trump proposed a temporary ban on Muslims entering the country, he had been leading the GOP presidential primary for four consecutive months and counting. When he suggested the ban, Republican leaders already wary of Trump's penchant for controversy quickly pushed to distance themselves and their party from his more controversial proposals.

RNC Chairman Reince Priebus (now Trump's chief of staff) said: “I don't agree.” He added: “We need to aggressively take on radical Islamic terrorism but not at the expense of our American values.

“Trump is wrong,” tweeted then-Sen. Patrick J. Toomey (R-Pa.).

Of course, Vice President Pence tweeted this:


But, as I wrote at the time, what Ryan said resonated in a way few others' comments did. His denunciation was elegant, simple and unequivocal. Like the best political messages, it could be easily grasped and easily repeated.

And its meaning was tough to misconstrue: The notion of banning all members of one religion from the country “is not what this party stands for,” to quote Ryan. His rebuke was made even more powerful because he typically avoided commenting on the presidential race. “More importantly, it's not what this country stands for.”

Just days before, then-British Prime Minister David Cameron celebrated similarly succinct words uttered by a man to a suspect in a London subway stabbing deemed a terrorist incident: “You ain't no Muslim, bruv." ("Bruv” means “bro” on that side of the pond.)

“Some of us have dedicated speeches and media appearances and sound bites and everything to this subject,” Cameron said after hearing the now-famous cellphone clip. “But ‘You ain’t no Muslim, bruv’ said it all much better than I ever could.”

Man shouts 'You ain't no Muslim, bruv' at London stabbing suspect  Play Video1:36
Amateur video captures the moment when the police arrested a knife attacker at an east London metro station. Rough Cut (no reporter narration). (Reuters)
5-Minute Fix newsletter
Keeping up with politics is easy now.
Sign up
These two statements work so well because the person saying them easily lays out clear boundaries of the group they ostensibly belong to — and then, in no uncertain terms, draws the person in question outside of it. It puts the onus on the person in question (in Ryan's case, Trump) to defend themselves and explain why they should be considered part of that group.

Now, Trump is part of the Republican Party. He's leading it, in directions that its former gatekeepers may have never thought they'd go.

When the issue came up again in July, Ryan did not mince words:


Ryan has not backtracked from characterizing conservatism as a tolerant ideology, nor that implementing a religious test is fundamentally un-American. But now that some version of Trump's controversial campaign proposal is reality, Ryan is taking a very different approach.

How people in the District reacted to Trump’s immigration ban
View Photos	Thousands protest the president’s executive order outside the White House and at Dulles International Airport
431 Comments
Amber Phillips writes about politics for The Fix. She was previously the one-woman D.C. bureau for the Las Vegas Sun and has reported from Boston and Taiwan.  Follow @byamberphillips
  
Do you like game shows? Do you like politics? Whatever, you’ll LOVE The Ciquizza anyway.
Listen on iTunes.
Listen on Stitcher.
 
PAID PROMOTED STORIES
 
This Brilliant Move By 2 Boston Grads Is Disrupting a $19 Billion Industry
EverQuote
 
Expensive Watches Are A Thing of the Past - Ours Start at $95
MVMT Watches
 
How Older Men Tighten Their Skin
The Modern Man Today
 
How Seniors Can Get Glasses for 70%
GlassesUSA
 
How To Fix Your Fatigue (Do This Every Day)
Gundry MD
 
“Shark Tank” Star’s Brilliant Advice For Paying Off Your Mortgage
Bills.com
Recommended by
Most Read
1
Facing criticism, Trump administration has no regrets about leaving out Jews in Holocaust statement
2
Whip Count: Here’s where Republicans stand on Trump’s controversial travel ban
3
Countries where Trump does business are not hit by new travel restrictions
4
Trump orders ISIS plan, talks with Putin and gives Bannon national security role
5
Trump promised disruption. That’s exactly what he’s delivering.
Unlimited Access to The Post. Just 99¢

Inside 'Trump Revealed'
Read stories based on reporting for “Trump Revealed,” a broad, comprehensive biography of the life of the president.
Reporting archive: Trump’s financial records, depositions and interview transcripts
washingtonpost.com
© 1996-2017 The Washington Post
 
Help and Contact Us
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Print Products Terms of Sale
Digital Products Terms of Sale
Submissions and Discussion Policy
RSS Terms of Service
Ad Choices
testtest`That time Paul Ryan gave a succinct, near-perfect response to Trump’s call to ban Muslims - The Washington Post