[object Object]

  https://www.googletagmanager.com/gtm.js?id=GTM-WZ846F:75 in error
  https://www.googletagmanager.com/gtm.js?id=GTM-WZ846F:83 in onerror

Sections
Design & Home
Food
Health
News
Our Events
Real Estate
Shopping
Things to Do
Travel
Weddings
Find Washington's Best...
Dentists
Doctors
Faces of Washington
Financial Advisers
Health Experts
Home Resources
Lawyers
Pet Resources
Real Estate Agents
Restaurants
Wedding Vendors
More
Subscribe
Manage My Subscription
Digital Edition
iPad App
Newsletters
About Us
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
Jobs
© 2017 Washingtonian Media Inc.
Privacy Policy
All Rights Reserved
 Rss
 
SEARCH
SUBSCRIBE
60% OFF!

MENU
 

Despite Court Order, US Officials Won’t Allow Lawyers at Dulles to See Detainees
"Not going to happen," is the message delivered to lawyers by a border agent.
By Amanda Whiting on January 29, 2017

Protestors rally during a demonstration against the Muslim immigration ban at Dulles International Airport on January 28, 2017 in Sterling, VA. President Trump signed the controversial executive order that halted refugees and residents from predominantly Muslim countries from entering the United States. (Photo by Riccardo Savi/Sipa via AP Images)
 TWEET   SHARE
The US Customs and Border Protection Agency at Dulles International Airport has refused to grant attorneys access to any detainees it may be holding, according to Sharifa Abbasi, who is coordinating the volunteer lawyer efforts underway there. Yesterday, a federal judge for the Eastern District of Virginia ordered respondents, who include CBP, President Trump, and the CBP Port Director for Dulles Wayne Biondi, to “permit lawyers access to all legal permanent residents being detained at Dulles International Airport.”
Abbasi says late Sunday morning a border agent told lawyers that agents have been instructed not to speak with them. About 15 lawyers have been directed to call Steve Sapp, an official with the CBP Office of Public Affairs, but have so far have not had their calls answered or returned. Washingtonian called the number, which directed reporters to a cellphone number whose voicemail was full.
Abbasi and one other lawyer we spoke to say officials at Dulles have refused to engage with the lawyers since this morning. A border agent who agreed to bring the lawyers’ request for access to detainees, as well as a copy of the order, to her supervisor came back with this message: “It’s not going to happen.”
Lawyers at Dulles are currently considering motions to hold the government in contempt and to compel disclosure of any individuals who are being detained.

Share this story.
 SHARE  TWEET
TAGGED IN: Donald Trump, Dulles International Airport, Muslim Ban
The best news, delivered straight to your inbox. 
Sign up for our weekend newsletter.

 COMMENTS ()
More from News
 
Larry Hogan Is Having a Grand Old Time as Maryland’s Governor

DC-Area Universities Warn Some Staff and Students Against Travel Outside US

Lobbyist Jack Kingston Defends Muslim Ban His Firm’s Clients Oppose
 
Why Donald Trump’s List of Criminal Immigrants Is the Most Troubling Thing He Did This Week

The DC Public Library Is Also Running Out of Orwell’s “1984”

Why You Can’t Trust Those “Rogue” National Park Service Tweets Yet

Ben’s Chili Bowl Removes Bill Cosby Mural

Theresa May Will Invoke Scottish Culture While Talking Brexit With Trump
Most Popular
Pineapple and Pearls Is the Best Restaurant in Washington
The Battle of Raging Bitch
100 Very Best Restaurants
February 2017: 100 Very Best Restaurants
6 Offbeat Winter Day Trips Around Washington

© 2017 Washingtonian Media Inc.
Privacy Policy
All Rights Reserved.
Washingtonian is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com.
 Rss
Get the best news, delivered weekly.

By signing up, you agree to our terms.
Subscribe
Manage My Subscription
Digital Edition
iPad App
Newsletters
About Us
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
Jobs
X`Despite Court Order, US Officials Won't Allow Lawyers at Dulles to See Detainees | Washingtonian