The Federalist Papers


You are here: Home / Politics / What Trump Just Did Shows How Different He Will Be From Obama
What Trump Just Did Shows How Different He Will Be From Obama
By V. Saxena 4 Comments
FacebookTwitterGoogle+Pinterest


President-elect Donald Trump took time out of his day Thursday morning to call and offer condolences to the family of an NYPD officer who was killed in the line of duty last week.


“President-elect Donald Trump called slain NYPD Sgt. Paul Tuozzolo’s widow Thursday morning and personally extended his ‘condolences’ to her on the day that thousands of police officers paid tribute to the fallen Finest at his funeral,” according to the New York Post.

“I’m very sorry I cannot be there with you today. My thoughts and prayers are with you and your family during this difficult time,” Trump reportedly told Tuozzolo’s widow. “I want to express my condolences from me and my family.”



He also mentioned the NYPD during his victory speech Wednesday morning.

“Law enforcement in New York City — they are here tonight,” he said at the time. “They are spectacular people. Sometimes underappreciated, unfortunately, but we appreciate them.”

The president-elect’s amazing act of sympathy Friday (as well as what he said Tuesday) differentiated him like night and day from President Barack Obama, who has spent his presidency instead offering sympathy to the justified victims of police shootings.

Remember Mike Brown? How about Alton Sterling? Their families received plenty of love and support from the president, despite evidence having shown that they had initiated the very encounters that ultimately led to their unfortunate demises.

Granted, President Obama has contacted deceased cops’ family members during his eight years in office, but I guarantee that these interactions were rare, far outnumbered by the calls or direct visits he made to the families of what were thugs.


It hints to a perverse lack of core values in the president — either that or simply backwards values. Either one.

As for Tuozzolo, the cop whose family Trump contacted, he was reportedly a “family man” and “protector” who was willing to do practically anything to save lives.

And unlike thugs such as Mike Brown and Alton Sterling, he believed in abiding by the law and treating others with respect.

R.I.P., Sir!



FacebookTwitterGoogle+PinterestEmail


About V. Saxena
V. Saxena is a conservative news writer and social/political commentator for the Conservative Tribune, the Federalist Papers Project and Downtrend.com who strives tirelessly to expose the errant hypocrisy of liberalism.

Facebook | More Posts (812)
Filed Under: Politics
Tagged With: Alton Sterling, Barack Obama, Mike Brown, NYPD, police
SHOW COMMENTS
Leave a Reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment


Name *


Email *


Website






Professor FREAKS OUT At NYPD For Defending Gavin McInnis, Calls Them "Fu**ing Assholes"

VIDEO: Here's How Reagan Dealt With Destructive Protesters

Doctor Forcibly ‘Euthanized’ Elderly Woman; Then it Got MUCH Worse…

Robert Reich LOSES it on Live TV; Shows How Unhinged Left Is Over Trump

Hilarious Cartoon Nails the State of Senate Confirmations in 2017


Meme Perfectly Sums Up the Left’s Arrested Development

BOOM: How Big Government Makes Liberals Their Own Worst Enemy

Libs Attempt to Smear Neil Gorsuch With Lies; FAIL Miserably

LEAKED: Draft of Trump Religious Freedom Executive Order

One of Europe's Biggest Magazines Just Sent a Message to Trump...It's BAD


Libs Attempt to Smear Neil Gorsuch With Lies; FAIL Miserably

LEAKED: Draft of Trump Religious Freedom Executive Order

One of Europe's Biggest Magazines Just Sent a Message to Trump...It's BAD

Former Obama Defense Dept Official Talks Military Coup Against Trump

Sad Evolution of the Democrat Party; From Jefferson to Today

Ads by Adblade

Warning: Don't Use Probiotics Before You See This
Gundry MD

Why Does Clinton News Network Refuse To Show This Explosive Hillary Video?
Health Sciences Institute

The Stunning Truth About Neuropathy Nerve Pain, And Solution
NerveRenew

Patty Duke’s Net Worth Is Truly Remarkable
Activly

15 Reasons Why Russia Is The Strangest Place On Earth
Detonate

Watch: How to Fix Aging Skin
www.innerskinresearch.com


Recent Posts


Professor FREAKS OUT At NYPD For Defending Gavin McInnis, Calls Them “Fu**ing Assholes”

By Robert Gehl 2 Comments

VIDEO: Here’s How Reagan Dealt With Destructive Protesters

By Brian Thomas Leave a Comment

Doctor Forcibly ‘Euthanized’ Elderly Woman; Then it Got MUCH Worse…

By C.E. Dyer Leave a Comment

Robert Reich LOSES it on Live TV; Shows How Unhinged Left Is Over Trump

By C.E. Dyer Leave a Comment

Hilarious Cartoon Nails the State of Senate Confirmations in 2017

By TFPP Writer Leave a Comment
Recent Comments

peter miller on Professor FREAKS OUT At NYPD For Defending Gavin McInnis, Calls Them “Fu**ing Assholes”
Rich Rainman on Professor FREAKS OUT At NYPD For Defending Gavin McInnis, Calls Them “Fu**ing Assholes”
Michael on Another Judge Blocks Trump’s Immigration Order – AGAIN
Mark on Former Obama Defense Dept Official Talks Military Coup Against Trump
Kensyl Burns on Another Judge Blocks Trump’s Immigration Order – AGAIN
George Rooney on The Real Purpose Behind Global Warming Agenda? Destroying Capitalism
lighthouse on Trump’s Replacement for Obama’s Infamous Pen [CARTOON]
Billy Harrelson on Former Obama Defense Dept Official Talks Military Coup Against Trump
Johnwer on The Real Purpose Behind Global Warming Agenda? Destroying Capitalism
Margot on HILARIOUS: How Leftists View Armed Citizens Stopping Mass Shootings
Testimonial

The Federalist Papers, the education you bring to your readers is immeasurable. Now more than ever, Americans need to learn about their country’s founding and its founders. Keep up the good work. - Buddy Novotney
Testimonial

The Federalist Papers admins do a wonderful job of going through our founding documents (and sometimes others) to find pertinent, timely and always thought-provoking pieces. I have discovered a new admiration for Patrick Henry from their work! Thank you, admins! - Lisa Hoppman
© Copyright 2017 The Federalist Papers · All Rights ReservedDesign by MIDesign & Marketing Consultants
BESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswyBESbswy`What Trump Just Did Shows How Different He Will Be From Obama | The Federalist Papers