CBS News
NEWS
SHOWS
VIDEO
MORE
SEARCH
CBSN
CBS/AP February 1, 2017, 8:06 AM
Shocking details as Russian spies charged with treason

FSB (Federal Security Service) headquarters, the grey building at the center, in downtown Moscow, Russia, Dec. 30, 2016.  AP
 Comment   Share   Tweet   Stumble  Email
Last Updated Feb 1, 2017 10:40 AM EST

MOSCOW -- Russian news agencies are reporting that former members of the domestic security agency and a cybersecurity expert have been formally charged with treason.

Reports emerged last week that three officials of the Federal Security Service (FSB) and an executive for cybersecurity company Kaspersky Labs had been arrested for treason. Government officials haven’t commented on the case.

Speculation on the arrests ranges from fallout from alleged Russian hacking of the U.S. presidential election to a power struggle within Russia’s security services.

 
Play VIDEO
Investigation launched into Russian interference in U.S. election
Ivan Pavlov, a lawyer specializing in treason cases, was quoted by the Interfax and state Tass news agencies as saying that FSB officials Sergei Mikhailov and Dmitry Dokuchayev, and Kaspersky’s Ruslan Stoyanov, were charged on Wednesday.

According to an account published by Wednesday by The Daily Beast, citing a named Russian official said to be close to the Kremlin, Mikhailov was the leader of a covert hacking group known by the name “Humpty Dumpty” that “cooperated with the Ukrainian SBU (security service), which is the same as working for the CIA; he worked with them, which is obviously treason.”

The source for The Daily Beast’s information, Kremlin adviser and parliamentarian Sergei Markov, said Mikhailov was taken into custody in late December by his own FSB colleagues during a meeting “with a bag over his head.”

The article says Russia’s security services often used to use a bag or blindfold over the head when leading criminal suspects away, but that the practice has largely been abandoned. 

Pavlov has told The Associated Press that he represents the fourth, unnamed arrestee.

“Everyone involved in the case is charged with treason, and in fact, this is the only article, no other charges,” Pavlov is quoted as saying to Tass. Like Interfax, Tass is controlled by the Russian government.

According to Pavlov, the criminal case is being investigated by the FSB’s own Department of Investigation.

Investigators accuse the defendants of transferring Russian state secrets to U.S. intelligence services, according to Tass. Unlike previous reports in Russian media, the accounts citing Pavlov that were published Wednesday do not specify which U.S. agencies the suspects are accused of colluding with.

 
Play VIDEO
Trump speaks with Vladimir Putin over the phone
“The name of CIA does not appear in the case, only the country (is mentioned),” Tass quotes Pavlov as saying. “Yes, we are in fact talking about America, but not about the CIA.” 

Kremlin spokesman Dimitry Peskov denied any link between the people charged with treason and the Russian hacking of U.S. Democratic institutions in the run-up to the presidential election in November, which Moscow has also denied.

“No matters of this sort can have any relation to such absurd insinuations (of Russian cyber meddling in the U.S. election process) or, as we have already said, we categorically deny any assertions about the possible complicity of the Russian side in any hacking attacks,” Tass quoted Peskov as saying.

The Kremlin spokesman also said that while he could not confirm President Vladimir Putin was aware of all the details of the treason charges, “this issue is not for the first day discussed in the media, so along with the other materials, of course, these reports were presented to the president.”

© 2017 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
 Comment   Share   Tweet   Stumble  Email
Featured in World
 
How foreign leaders are reacting to Trump's travel ban
Iran's foreign minister says Trump's executive order was "great gift to extremists and their supporters”

 
Director can't go to Oscars amid immigration ban, group's leader says
Trump immigration ban appears to affect Iranian director Asghar Farhadi, more than 150 Google employees

Popular
From 60 Minutes


Hidden magnets -- the next big cheat in cycling?

The steps of finding refuge

Jackie Kennedy's real White House tour

Andy's inauguration trivia

Obama and the 2008 general election


play VIDEO
UC Berkeley protests

play VIDEO
Trump's diplomatic discords

play VIDEO
GOP opposition of Betsy DeVos

play VIDEO
Luntz on GOP-Democrat rift

play VIDEO
Yemen raid against al Qaeda
PreviousNext

33 PHOTOS
Protesters at U.S. airports slam Trump immigration ban

54 PHOTOS
Sir John Hurt 1940-2017

26 PHOTOS
Ghost towns of America and beyond

25 PHOTOS
Mary Tyler Moore 1936-2017

33 PHOTOS
Heartwarming tales that will restore your faith in humanity
PreviousNext
Most Discussed


Trump fires acting Attorney General Sally Yates
 
Lawmakers blast Trump order on refugees, citizens from Muslim nations
 
Protesters across U.S. denounce Trump immigration order
 
Acting AG directed Justice Dept. not to defend Trump travel ban
 
Trump signs executive actions on "extreme vetting," rebuilding military
New Fire TV App

 
CBSNews.com

Site Map
Help
Contact Us
CBS Bios
Careers
CBSi Careers
Internships
Development Programs
CBS Interactive

Privacy Policy
Ad Choice
Terms of Use
Mobile User Agreement
About CBS
Advertise
Closed Captioning
CBS News Store
Follow Us

Facebook
Twitter
RSS
Email Newsletters
YouTube
CBS Radio News
CBS Local
CBS News
Copyright © 2017 CBS Interactive Inc.
All rights reserved.

Search`Russia charges FSB spies and Kaspersky Labs exec with treason, working for US intelligence, denies CIA, hacking link - CBS News