
By using this site, you agree to the Privacy Policy and Terms of Service.
U.S.+Live TV 
How many fatal terror attacks have refugees carried out in the US? None
By Eric Levenson, CNN

Updated 6:54 PM ET, Sun January 29, 2017


Obama weighs in on immigration ban

Kal Penn turns hate into help

Sean Spicer: Safety of Americans comes first

Business leaders react to US travel ban

Understand Trump's refugee restrictions

The seven countries banned by Trump

Reality check: Truth about refugees, terrorism

Protesters swarm airports nationwide

Travel ban affects citizens of 7 Muslim-majority nations

Albright: Travel ban is 'flat anti-American'

Sen. Warren: Overturn Trump's executive order

Angus King: Ban will make America 'dangerous'

White House faces defiant Justice Department

Former AG Sally Yates was anti-immigration ban

Schumer: Travel ban against American values

Trump voters react to travel ban

Obama weighs in on immigration ban

Kal Penn turns hate into help

Sean Spicer: Safety of Americans comes first

Business leaders react to US travel ban

Understand Trump's refugee restrictions

The seven countries banned by Trump

Reality check: Truth about refugees, terrorism

Protesters swarm airports nationwide

Travel ban affects citizens of 7 Muslim-majority nations

Albright: Travel ban is 'flat anti-American'

Sen. Warren: Overturn Trump's executive order

Angus King: Ban will make America 'dangerous'

White House faces defiant Justice Department

Former AG Sally Yates was anti-immigration ban

Schumer: Travel ban against American values

Trump voters react to travel ban
Story highlights
No refugees have carried out major fatal terrorist attacks in the US since the Refugee Act of 1980
Attacks not perpetrated by US citizens have involved people from countries not included in the ban
(CNN)Donald Trump first introduced the idea of a Muslim travel ban in December 2015, shortly after Syed Rizwan Farook and his wife, Tashfeen Malik, shot and killed 14 people in San Bernardino, California.

But President Trump's executive order temporarily banning all refugees and suspending travelers from seven Muslim-majority countries would not have applied to either Farook or Malik.
Nor would the travel ban have affected the perpetrators of any of the major Islamic terrorist attacks on American soil in recent years.

No person accepted to the United States as a refugee, Syrian or otherwise, has been implicated in a major fatal terrorist attack since the Refugee Act of 1980 set up systematic procedures for accepting refugees into the United States, according to an analysis of terrorism immigration risks by the Cato Institute.
Before 1980, three refugees had successfully carried out terrorist attacks; all three were Cuban refugees, and a total of three people were killed.
Read More
News for you
Ivanka Trump's Marie Antoinette moment
Fox News apologizes for terror tweet
Triplets for Pharrell Williams
Milky Way pushed by an unseen force
Two children, two faiths, one message
The chances of a refugee killing you
 
Paid Content
 
How To: Get Rid of Dark Under Eye Circles [Watch]
Health Headlines
 
Enter Your Name, Wait 14 Seconds, Brace Yourself
TruthFinder
 
15 Most Hilarious Windshield Notes You Have to See
Gloriousa
 
What DO Dogs Dream About - The Answer Will Shock You
HorizonTimes
 
NFL Legends - 10 Years After Retirement
DailySportX
 
What You Don't Know About the Deadliest Snake in the World Could Save Your Life
HorizonTimes
More from CNN
 
Actor shot dead while filming music video
Busted: Feds charge cashier with stealing $9.5 million
 
Iran says it will ban US citizens
 
America first, Netherlands wants to be second
Recommended by

Content by LendingTree
Rates now at 3.2% APR (15 Yr Fixed). Do you qualify?
Fastest way to pay off $10,000 in credit card debt
Can you save on your mortgage?
The amazing VA benefits not enough vets are claiming
People are stockpiling miles with this insane credit card

Paid Partner Content
Top 7 cards for excellent credit NextAdvisor
Save on hotels around the world with Booking.com Booking.com
30-day free trial with Daily Burn Daily Burn
10 mind-blowing credit cards charging 0% interest until 2018 NextAdvisor
Trump's plan could make investors very wealthy The Motley Fool
New York City, NY		41°

U.S.
World


Opinion
Health



Travel

Living
Video
More…
U.S. Edition
© 2017 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.
Terms of UsePrivacy PolicyAdChoicesAbout usVisit CNNNewslettersWork for usHelpTranscriptsLicense FootageCNN Newsource
`Fatal terror attacks by refugees in the US: Zero - CNN.com